Release of Patient Assessment Documentation Pkg, NUPA v.1.0  [#2480989]
17 Apr 2012 09:30:18 -0500 (EST)  136 lines
From: <STOKER.ELAINE@FORUM.VA.GOV>  In 'NUPA*1 PATIENT ASSESSMENT DOC' basket.
Page 1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Subject: Release of Patient Assessment Documentation Pkg, Version 1.0 
(NUPA*1*0)
 
RELEASE INFORMATION:
 
The Patient Assessment Documentation Package (PADP) Version 1.0 is a 
Veterans Health Information Systems and Technology Architecture (VistA) 
software application that enables Registered Nurses (RNs) to document, in 
a standardized format, patient care during an inpatient stay. Although 
the content is standardized for use across the VA system, some parameters 
can be set to support the unique processes at individual medical centers. 
 
PADP interfaces directly with several VistA applications, including 
Computerized Patient Record System (CPRS), Clinical Reminders, Consult 
Tracking, Allergy/Adverse Reaction Tracking, Mental Health Assistant, 
Vitals, and Patient Care Encounter (PCE). 
 

PADP is a Delphi application, which supports RNs in documenting patient 
care during an inpatient stay. It includes the following templates:  
 
  Admission  RN Assessment allows RNs to document the status of the 
    patient at admission.
  Admission  Nursing Data Collection allows Licensed Practical 
    Nurses (LPNs) and other nursing staff, including the RN, to enter
    basic patient data, such as vitals and belongings at the time of
    admission.
  RN Reassessment allows RNs to document the condition of the patient on a
    regular basis and any time during the inpatient stay. 
  Interdisciplinary Plan of Care interfaces with admission and 
    reassessment data, and allows additional information to be entered by
    the RN and other health care personnel (physicians, social workers,
    chaplain, etc.). All clinical staff can enter information into the
    Plan of Care. The Plan of Care can be printed and given to the patient
    when appropriate.

PADP consists of a KIDS build, NUPA 1*0*1, and four (4) Delphi GUI 
templates in three executables. 
1.  The executable, Admassess.exe, contains the Admission - RN Assessment
    template and the Admission - Nursing Data Collection template.
2.  The executable, Admassess_Shift.exe, contains the RN Reassessment 
    template.
3.  The executable, Admassess_Careplan.exe, contains the Interdisciplinary
    Plan of Care template.
 
Each template is associated with a note. 
The Admission - RN Assessment template is associated with the note:
    RN Admission Assessment
The Admission - Nursing Data Collection template is associated with the
note: 
    Nursing Admission Data Collection
The RN Reassessment template  is associated with the note: 
    RN Reassessment
The Interdisciplinary Plan of Care template is associated with the note: 
    Interdisciplinary Plan of Care
 
PADP adds to VistA, a new namespace (NUPA), four (4) Progress Notes, five 
(5) printouts, fourteen (14) files, thirty-six (36) parameters, and new 
health factors. The 5 printouts are:
1.  The Daily Plan is a health summary designed to be given to the 
    patient and family
2.  Plan of Care is a plan designed to guide the nursing staff
3.  Discharge Plan is for discharge planners
4.  Belongings is a list of patient belongings
5.  Safe Patient Handling is designed to guide the transfer of a patient
 
SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION CHANGES:
 
There are two files. The one that contains the kids build and the one 
executable that contains the four (4) Delphi GUI templates and the help 
files.
 
SOFTWARE FILES:


NUPA 1_0.KID    (KIDS build)
NUPA.ZIP        (Executables) 
 
DOCUMENTATION:
 
Documentation in Adobe Acrobat format (.pdf) files
 
Document File Description                File Name             FTP Mode
----------------------------------       -------------------------------
 
Admission-RN Assessment Template         Admassess.exe            Binary
Admission RN Reassessment Template       Admassess_shift.exe      Binary
Interdisciplinary Plan of Care Template  Admassess_careplan.exe   Binary
 
Installation Guide                       nupa1_0ig.doc            Binary
Installation Guide                       nupa1_0ig.pdf            Binary
 
Technical Manual                         nupa1_0tm.doc            Binary 
Technical Manual                         nupa1_0tm.pdf            Binary
 
Admission -RN Assessment User Manual     nupa1_0_Aum.doc          Binary
Admission -RN Assessment User Manual     nupa1_0_Aum.pdf          Binary
 
RN Reassessment User Manual              nupa1_0_Rum.doc          Binary
RN Reassessment User Manual              nupa1_0_Rum.doc          Binary
 
Admission Nursing Data Collect User Manual nupa1_0_DCum.doc       Binary
Admission Nursing Data Collect User Manual nupa1_0_DCum.pdf       Binary
 
Interdisciplinary Plan of Care User Manual nupa1_0_Ium.doc        Binary
Interdisciplinary Plan of Care User Manual nupa1_0_Ium.pdf        Binary
 
The files listed above may be obtained via FTP. The preferred method is 
to FTP the files from:  download.vista.med.va.gov
 
This transmits the files from the first available FTP server. Sites may 
also elect to retrieve the three executables, KIDS file, and manuals 
directly from a specific server as follows:
 
CIO Field Office        FTP Address              Directory
Albany               ftp.fo-albany.med.va.gov [anonymous.software]
Hines                ftp.fo-hines.med.va.gov  [anonymous.software]
Salt Lake City       ftp.fo-slc.med.va.gov    [anonymous.software]
 
 
MANDATE:
 
All sites are mandated to install the application, but implementation is 
not mandated. Nursing personnel at the sites will be mandated to use this 
application in accordance with the VA Office of Nursing Services (ONS), 
as well as the training schedule. 
 
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
 
If you have any questions concerning the implementation of this 
application, please contact the VA Service Desk at 1-888-596-HELP (4357) 
or directly log a Remedy ticket using the following:
 
Category = Applications  VistA
Type = Patient Assessment Documentation Package  PADP
Item = Connectivity Issues, Consults, Parameters, Templates, Document 
Definition, Other
