Subj: Release Announcment: PECS v2.2  [#57901] 3 Apr 2013 09:02:54 -0500 (EST)
164 lines
From: <TEAGUE.LYN@FORUM.VA.GOV>  In 'FOIA' basket.   Page 1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To:     G.IRM CHIEFS (NATIONAL) & STAFF
        G.SITEMANAGERSNATIONAL
        G.PATCH
        G.SSA
        G.CSPROVSYS
        G.PHARMACY ADPACS
        G.CSHDSYS
        G.CLIN APP COORDINATORS
 
 
From:  Clinical 1 Team, Clinical Product Support
 
Release Information:
 
We are pleased to announce the release of the Pharmacy Enterprise 
Customization System (PECS) v2.2. The purpose of this software product 
release is to replace the current version, PECS v2.1, with an enhanced 
version, PECS v2.2, which provides functional enhancements to the Dose 
Range, Drug-Drug Interaction (DDI), Professional Monograph (PM), Drug 
Pairs, and Custom Updates concepts.  PECS v2.2 also provides FDB 
Comparison Reports for the Duplicate Therapy (DT), DDI and Drug Pairs 
concepts.  It enables a user for perform Record Locking, whereby Detail 
pages display in read-only mode upon retrieval and all concepts, except 
for Single Drug Pairs, can be edited only after launching edit mode.
Impacts to Pharmacists and Clinicians
        As a Requestor, pharmacists and clinicians can create a 
customization request, modify their own requests, and run, save, and 
export queries.
        As an Approver, Pharmacy Benefits Management personnel are able 
to create, review, approve, modify, delete or reject customization 
requests; run, save, and export queries, and run reports. An approver can 
review, but cannot approve their own requests. 
 
Access to PECS through Local VistA Accounts
 
For those pharmacists or clinicians who have access to PECS v2.1, their 
credentials and access will carry over and be in place for PECS v2.2; no 
action required. 
 
For those who do not currently have access to PECS v2.1, an access 
request should be initiated through their Pharmacy Automated Data 
Processing Application Coordinator (ADPAC). Users requiring Requestor 
access to PECS will need to be assigned the appropriate role.
Once access is achieved, they may wish to read the Login section of the 
PECS 2.2 User Guide to take advantage of the new features introduced.
 
In summary, the PECS application is accessible only by users signed 
directly into the VA network, or by users signed into the VA network via 
the RESCUE client. Authorization is handled through the use of specific 
VistA security keys. PECS doesn't assign individual permissions to users. 
Instead, it defines a number of roles for its users (requestor, approver, 
release manager and administrator) and associates a set of permissions 
with each of them. These roles are mapped to security keys as defined in 
the user guide.
 
Pharmacists and clinicians having trouble connecting to PECS v2.2 should 
contact their local IRM or enter a Remedy ticket under the 
Category/Type/Item of Applications-HealtheVet-Vista/PECS/Connectivity to 
assist with the connection.
 
Training Available
 
Description:  Attendees will participate in Live Meeting demonstrations 
of the PECS GUI related to the requestor functionality and process.  A 
VANTS audio conference call will support the Live Meeting modality, 
allowing participants the option of an audio only option.  Participants 
will have the opportunity to view PECS in operation. There will be time 
allotted for questions and answers. Each call will be scheduled five 
times to accommodate staff schedules. Each call will last 50 minutes and 
will be conducted in the afternoon to accommodate all time zones. A 
tentative call schedule was sent to Pharmacy Chiefs and Pharmacy ADPACs.
 
The target audience is new and current users in the Requestor role.
 
Prerequisites: Audience must have a Pharmacy background and must possess 
a knowledge of the enhancements included in PECS 2.2.
 
 
Responsible parties (POCs):
     EES Project Manager  -  Edgar (Ed) Heitman 
     SMEs - Deborah Coulter (Lead); Don Lees, Pharmacist Specialist
     Site training coordinators 
     Pharmacy ADPACs  
 
Training announcement and schedules were sent to Pharmacy Chiefs and 
Pharmacy ADPACs. The announcement will outline the program and 
educational materials as well as identify related web sites and points of 
contact as needed.
 
PBM has established a PECS training Wiki support website as a support 
tool in addition to the training. Policy restrictions prevent live links 
from being included in this document. Copy the following URL and paste 
into your browser Address Bar.
https://vaww.wiki.webdev.va.gov/index.php?title=Pharmacy_Enterprise_Custom
ization_System(PECS)
 
Support Available
 
During the course of the deployment, the PRE team will address Remedy 
Tickets logged for issues involving the PECS product. Please log tickets 
rather than contacting the team directly as this helps ensure that your 
issues are properly addressed and tracked to resolution.  For issues 
related to the deployment, please log Tickets under the Category/Type of 
Applications-HealtheVet-Vista/PECS, and then choose the appropriate Item.
Thirty days following deployment, the Clinical Product Support Team 1 
(CLIN1) will provide Tier 2 product support and the Enterprise 
Application Maintenance Team (EAM) will provide Tier 3 product support. 
Operational support will be provided by AITC, PITC, and Regional FOD 
staff.
 
Distribution of code and supporting scripts is articulated in the ESE 
Release Profile document.
 
SOFTWARE RETRIEVAL
 
The PECS application resides on a centralized server at the Austin 
Information Technology Center (AITC). The exact timing of events will be 
coordinated by the System Design & Engineering (SDE) Implementation 
Manager with a release schedule of PECS v2.2 deployment to production the 
week of 4/01/2013.
 
No action is required by local staff in support of this release.
 
DOCUMENTATION RETRIEVAL
 
 1. The preferred method is to FTP the files from 
download.vista.med.va.gov, which will transmit the files from the first 
available FTP server.
  
 2. Sites may also elect to retrieve documentation directly from a
    specific server as follows:
  
    Albany               ftp.fo-albany.med.va.gov
    Hines                ftp.fo-hines.med.va.gov
    Salt Lake City       ftp.fo-slc.med.va.gov
  
 3. Documentation may also be retrieved from VISTA Documentation Library
    (VDL) on the Internet at the following address, http://www.va.gov/vdl.
  
   The documentation distribution includes:
  
   FILE NAME                              DESCRIPTION
 
   PECS_V2_2_RELEASE_NOTES.PDF           Pharmacy Enterprise Customization
                                         System (PECS) v2.2 Release Notes
  
   PECS_TROUBLESHOOTING_GUIDE_V2_2.PDF   Pharmacy Enterprise Customization
                                         System (PECS)
                                         Troubleshooting Guide
  
   PECS_USER_GUIDE_V2_2.PDF              Pharmacy Enterprise Customization
                                         System (PECS) User Guide   
   
 
COMPLIANCE DATE
 
An Informational Patch (PREC*2.2*1) was released for PECS v2.2.  This is 
an informational patch only and requires no installation or action at the 
local site.
 
INSTALLATION
 
This is a Web Application JAVA Build. This is a Centralized Server
Promotion that requires NO installation at local sites.

