
=============================================================================
Run Date: MAR 07, 2011                     Designation: OR*3*280
Package : OR - ORDER ENTRY/RESULTS REPORTING  Priority: Mandatory
Version : 3       SEQ #288                      Status: Released
                  Compliance Date: JUL 19, 2011
=============================================================================

Associated patches: (v)OR*3*67         install with patch       `OR*3*280'
                    (v)OR*3*181        install with patch       `OR*3*280'
                    (v)OR*3*293        install with patch       `OR*3*280'
                    (v)SD*5.3*536      install with patch       `OR*3*280'
                    (v)OR*3*302        install with patch       `OR*3*280'
                    (v)PSS*1*142       install with patch       `OR*3*280'
                    (v)PSS*1*147       install with patch       `OR*3*280'
                    (v)PSS*1*151       install with patch       `OR*3*280'
                    (v)OR*3*243    <<= must be installed BEFORE `OR*3*280'
                    (v)OR*3*295    <<= must be installed BEFORE `OR*3*280'
                    (v)LR*5.2*395  <<= must be installed BEFORE `OR*3*280'

Subject: CPRS GUI 28

Category: 
  - Routine
  - Enhancement (Mandatory)
  - Data Dictionary
  - Other

Description:
============

 CPRS v28 is an enhancement release with modifications for the PRE project 
 (MOCHA 1.0), reminders order checks, the Lab Status report, a new 
 Reminders finding, and consults.  In addition to these enhancements, 
 software changes are being made to correct PSI and known Section 508 
 issues.
  CPRS GUI version 28 consists of five host files: PSS_1_151.KID, 
 PSS_1_142.KID, CPRS28_REQUIRED.KID, OR_PSJ_PXRM_28.KID and 
 CPRS28_RELATED.KID. These five host files contain software that support 
 CPRS GUI v28 functionality.  The host files were created to simplify 
 installation at Veterans Health Administration (VHA) facilities and to 
 assist in the phased implementation release method for CPRS v28.  CPRS 
 v28 will follow a phased implementation.  To see current status and 
 target dates for Sites/VISN/Region please refer to the following site:
  
 http://vaww.itfo.portal.va.gov/svcs/itfopmo/pre05/default.aspx
  
  
 Please refer to the "CPRS GUI v.28 and Associated Patches Installation 
 Guide" for installation sequence information.  This document is exported 
 as OR_30_280IG.doc and OR_30_280IG.pdf and is included in OR_30_280.ZIP.
  
 Installation and set-up information specific to OR*3*280 is included in 
 "CPRS GUI v.28 and Associated Patches Installation Guide".   
  
 Patch information:
 PSS patches exported as two host files support CPRS v28 functionality.
        PSS_1_142.KID
        PSS_1_151.KID
  
 CPRS28_REQUIRED.KID includes the required patches needed to support CPRS 
 GUI v28 functionality.  It includes builds for the following patches:
        OR*3.0*293
        GMRC*3.0*66
        GMRA*4.0*45
  
 OR_PSJ_PXRM_28.KID includes the CPRS, Pharmacy and Clinical Reminders 
 patches required for CPRS GUI v28.  It includes builds for the following 
 patches: 
        OR*3.0*280
        PSJ*5.0*226
        PXRM*2.0*16
  
 CPRS28_RELATED.KID includes the related patches needed to support CPRS 
 GUI v28 functionality.  It includes builds for the following patches:
        GMRC*3.0*64
        GMTS*2.7*90
        OR*3.0*337
  
 Installation of these five host files should be coordinated among the 
 packages affected because these host files will install the software 
 needed to implement CPRS GUI v28.
  
  
 Patient Safety Issues
 =====================
         PSPO 444: When the Order Is Signed the Recently Entered Allergy 
 Is Not Assessed (PSI-06-183, Remedy 169995, CQ 13518) - Previously, 
 because CPRS does order checking when the user presses Accept, it was 
 possible that an allergy could be entered between the time an order was 
 accepted and the user signed the order.
 Resolution: Developers added an order check in CPRS that takes place at 
 signature. This check is to detect only those allergies entered between 
 the time the user accepts the orders and the user signs the orders.
  
         PSPO 538: Display of Patient Status (Inpatient vs. Outpatient) in 
 CPRS Meds Tab Is Not Noticeable Enough Upon Ordering (PSI-07-085, Remedy 
 187803, CQ 16833, 17491) - Previously, when the user began ordering 
 medications, the form caption at the top of the both the inpatient and 
 outpatient dialogs read: "Medication Order". The providers felt that the 
 patient's status was not noticeable enough.  
 Resolution: To help users identify which kind of order they are placing, 
 developers changed the form captions for the dialogs. The form captions 
 at the top of the dialogs will now read "Outpatient Medications", 
 "Inpatient Medications", or "Clinic Orders". The Infusion Order dialog 
 will also display as "Infusion Orders" or "Clinic Infusion Orders" 
 depending on the type of order being written. Also, to help users know 
 what the patient status is, CPRS added the term "Inpatient" or 
 "Outpatient" after the patient's name based on the patient's current 
 status.
  
         PSPO 542: Delayed Orders Did Not Lapse in 24hr; MD Rewrote So 
 There Were Two Sets of Orders (PSI-07-089, Remedy 189760, CQ 15180) - 
 Previously, CPRS was using a calendar day instead of hours to calculate 
 when to lapse some delayed orders.
 Resolution: Developers changed how CPRS handles lapsing. Lapsing should 
 now occur within 1 hour of the time of lapsing (due to the running of 
 ORMTIME) instead of only lapsing shortly after midnight.
  
         PSPO 735: Addition of Audit Trail Functionality when Forwarding 
 Consults - M Work (PSI-07-120, Remedy 195099, CQ 15561, 16430)  - 
 Previously, when a user decided to forward a consult, CPRS did not 
 display the name that the previous user had placed in the Attention 
 field. It appeared to be blank. However, if the user forwarded the 
 consult, the original name was placed in the Attention field without the 
 user's knowledge. And there was no audit trail to review to whose 
 attention the consult had been sent.
 Resolution: CPRS developers corrected the problem by making the name in 
 the attention line display when a user forwards a consult. If the user 
 changes the person to whom the consult will go, CPRS keeps an audit trail 
 of which names have been in the Attention field. The Consults Detail 
 Display shows the history of which users took action on the consult, 
 including who forwarded it and to whose attention it was previously sent. 
 This resolution includes the changes in patch GMRC*3.0*64.
  
         PSPO 834: "Invalid Procedure" Error Message Needs Additional 
 Information (PSI-07-247, Remedy 69886, CQ 15813, 16223) - Previously, if 
 there was a problem placing a radiology or procedure order, CPRS would 
 display the following error message: "Invalid Procedure, Inactive, no 
 Imaging Type or no Procedure Type". This message was somewhat unclear. 
 Resolution: This problem was resolved in two parts: 
 o       Part 1 of 2: Developers replaced the error message with the 
 following: "The order has not been saved.  You must contact the Imaging 
 Department for help completing this order."
 o       Part 2 of 2: Also, in response to this problem, developers added 
 a feature in CPRS that generates a mail message that includes the error 
 details and sends it to the responsible mail group. Users can designate 
 which mail group the message is sent to through the OR RADIOLOGY ISSUES 
 parameter.
  
         PSPO 837: Consult Alert Updates (COMPLETED Status) Navigate to 
 TIU Doc instead of Comment Text (PSI-08-007, Remedy 70380, 70118, 197479, 
 CQ 16030) - If the consult request was in COMPLETE status, then the 
 comment alert took the user to the TIU document, not the new comment 
 text, so the user could easily miss the request/actionable item.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS so that when processing a "comment 
 added" notification instead of opening the note attached to the consult, 
 CPRS opens the consult and scrolls down to the specific comment. CPRS 
 also highlights the comment to help it stand out.
  
         PSPO 849: Out Patient Pharmacy Complex Dosage Not Selecting 
 Correct Number of Capsules in the SIG (PSI-08-021, Remedy 203642, 232325, 
 CQ 16957) - Previously, when CPRS looked up dispense drugs, it used an 
 internal entry number to identify the drug. However, the look up used the 
 idea of "contains" instead of matching the entire number. For example, if 
 two dispense drugs were returned, with number such as 236 and 2361, and 
 both had the same dosage, the code, when looking for 236, might 
 accidently match 2361 because they both contain the digits 236.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to ensure that it will no longer 
 mismatch the IEN numbers by avoiding the "contains" scenario. It should 
 now match correctly.
  
         PSPO 850: Using (IMO) and Appt Crosses Midnight, Appt. Not 
 Available to Order Unit Dose Med in CPRS (PSI-07-117, Remedy 243000, 
 197489, CQ 15188, 10767, 17125) - Previously, if a user began entering 
 orders in an Inpatient Medication for Outpatient (IMO) clinic, such as an 
 emergency room situation, before midnight and then tried to enter orders 
 after midnight, the user could not place the unit dose orders. 
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS so that when a user selects an 
 encounter, the user can enter an order up to 23 hours in the past or if 
 the user makes the encounter NOW, the user can enter orders up to 23 
 hours in the future. This should enable users to handle situation where 
 the appointment begins on one day and ends on another, such as Emergency 
 Room situations.
  
         PSPO 852: Incorrect Med Routes Display for Dispense Drug 
 (PSI-08-026, CQ 17783) - Previously for Unit Dose orders, CPRS displayed 
 all medication routes for the dosage form of the orderable item as 
 possible med routes the user could select. Even if an orderable item is 
 only to be given as intramuscular (IM), the provider was able to select a 
 potentially inappropriate medication route of subcutaneous (SC) or 
 intravenous (IV).
 Currently, for infusion orders, if there were more than one orderable 
 item on the order, no default medication route was being denoted as a 
 default in the CPRS selection list-even if all the orderable items on the 
 order share the same default med route.
 Resolution: CPRS developers changed how the unit dose medication routes 
 work. Unit dose orders now call Pharmacy to get the correct medication 
 route and designate the default medication route. This issue is resolved 
 by OR*3.0*280 and PSS*1.0*140
 For unit dose orders, the following apply:
 a)      If a default medication route is defined in the orderable item 
 file, CPRS displays only the default medication route for the Unit Dose 
 orderable item in the medication route selection list.
 b)      If there is no default medication route defined for the orderable 
 item, CPRS displays all possible medication routes for the dosage form to 
 the provider for selection.
 c)      If there is only one possible medication route, it will be used 
 as the default.
 d)      If a medication route name or its abbreviation is not included in 
 the selection list, a user may type it in.
  
 For infusion orders, the following rules apply:
 a)      If all of the orderable items on the order have the same default 
 medication route defined, designate the default med route in the 
 selection list in CPRS.
 b)      If one or more orderable items on the order have different 
 default medication routes, no medication route in the selection lest will 
 be denoted as the default.
  
         PSPO 853: Update CPRS GUI User Guide to Enhance Current 
 Functionality Description of the Remove Pending Notification Button 
 (PSI-08-027, CQ 18988)
 Resolution: The Computerized Patient Record System (CPRS) User Guide: GUI 
 Version was updated to include a warning about removing pending 
 notifications. 
  
         PSPO 908: Due to Single Spacing of the CPRS Medication List, 
 Provider Selected Wrong Medication (PSI-08-086, Remedy 251162, CQ 17241) 
 - A provider ordered the wrong medication for a patient. The root cause 
 analysis at the site decided that because of the single spacing of the 
 medications in the selection list, a provider could select the incorrect 
 medication. 
 Resolution: Several options to improve the selection list have been 
 considered. Some of these items may be included in future releases of the 
 CPRS and Pharmacy packages. As an immediate step, the cognitive engineers 
 from the Patient Safety 
 Group advised CPRS developers to add a small amount of space between the 
 dialog caption and the field where the selected medication is displayed. 
 This change was made to Inpatient, Outpatient, and Non-VA Medication 
 order forms. 
  
         PSPO 921: If Font Size Is OTHER THAN 8 in CPRS GUI, Critical 
 Order Checks May Not Display Correctly (PSI-08-096, Remedy 253732, 
 CQ17160,  17308) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the order checks should 
 now display correctly at all font sizes.
  
         PSPO 1087: Order Prints at Old Location (Remedy 277718, 280707, 
 284718, 29171, CQ 17760) - If a user placed an order at one location but 
 did not release the order, and then the patient is transferred and the 
 user subsequently signed the order, the order prints at the old location, 
 not the new one.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. The order prints to the 
 appropriate location.
  
         PSPO 1149:  Admin Time of Complex Inpt Order May Be Used for Next 
 Part of Complex Order (Remedy 281683, 279780, 284786, CQ 17754) - When 
 the user created a complex order with at least two lines and assigned 
 different schedules to each line, CPRS made the second line have the same 
 schedule as the first line. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected the error; each line has its appropriate 
 schedule. 
  
         PSPO 1157: Non-VA Meds Displayed on CPRS Orders Tab-Custom Order 
 View-All Non-VA Meds, but Not on CPRS Meds Tab (Remedy 285601, CQ 17777, 
 18137) - Previously, it was difficult for the user to know what date 
 range the medications displayed on the Meds tab represented. This caused 
 the user to think the Non-VA Meds were not displaying correctly, but the 
 cause was the date range.
 Resolution: Developers added a generic message to the Meds tab if the 
 date range is not defined: "To set a specific date range go to Tools | 
 Options | Other Parameters". If the date range is set, the message shows 
 the date range: (7/1/09-8/15/09) for example. In most cases, users should 
 use relative dates, such as T and T-120, for these dates when putting 
 them in the Tools | Options dialog. If the user puts in specific dates, 
 the dates will stay even if the user changes patients. The specific dates 
 will not change until the user changes them.
  
         PSPO 1187:  Short-term-Reword the "Pop-up Box" to Make the 
 Tubefeeding Order Clearer to the User (Remedy 290535, CQ 18407) - The 
 Diet and Tubefeeding dialog could be confusing. The validation and 
 warning pop-up dialog needed rewording to help the user know what was 
 wrong and how to correct it if the order was entered incorrectly.
 Resolution: With input from field users, developers changed the wording 
 and formatting of the pop-up dialog, including using examples.
  
         PSPO 1426:  Patient Inquiry Displays Different Patient Info (CQ 
 18425) - Previously, if the user selected the Patient Inquiry button and 
 then before the information loaded, the user tried to open a different 
 patient's record, it was possible that the new patient's record could 
 load and then the patient inquiry data would load, but it would be for 
 the previous patient.
 Resolution: This problem was created because two processes were trying to 
 do something at the same time. The patient inquiry information was unable 
 to finish before the new patient chart was loaded. Developers changed 
 CPRS to change the cursor to an hourglass and disabling the Select New 
 Patient menu item until such time as the Patient Inquiry information had 
 returned.
  
         PSPO 1525: Category II Patient Flags Are Not Displaying in CPRS 
 (Remedy 352337. 35820, CQ 18837) - There were some slight changes to the 
 display of Patient Record Flags with OR*3.0*296, the previous version of 
 the CPRS GUI. The change caused concern at some sites that some user 
 might not notice some patient record flags that the user might need to 
 scroll down to see.
 Resolution: Developers added a splitter bar between the two categories of 
 patient record flags so that the area can be resized. Also, after the 
 label "Category II Patient Record Flags", developers added the number of 
 flags displayed under the category (for example, the label might read: 
 Category II Flags: 2 Item(s)).
  
 Known Issues
 ============
 NONE
  
 New Functionality
 =================
 Consults:
 Add Earliest Appropriate Dates to CPRS Consults Ordering (NSR 20051008, 
 CQ 10230)
 CPRS added an earliest appropriate date to the Order a Consults dialog. 
 This date can then be used to track how quickly consults are completed. 
 The Consults Performance Monitor report will now use EARLIEST APPROPRIATE 
 DATE in place of DATE OF REQUEST when calculating if requests are 
 complete within the 30 and 60 day date ranges. The Orders tab detailed 
 display, form SF 513, and Consults tab detailed display have been updated 
 to show Earliest Appropriate Date.
 At the request of prosthetics users, the earliest appropriate date does 
 not apply to services that are defined as prosthetics consult services. 
  
 Eligibility Marker Display in Consults: OEF/OIF, Active Duty, and Service 
 Connection (NSR 20060203, CQ 18061, 18062) 
 Clerks were having difficulty scheduling appointments with the proper 
 priority because they lacked information about the patient's 
 characteristics. The request was therefore to add the following 
 information to the SF-513 and to the consult detailed displays:
         Service in Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) or Operation Iraqi 
         Freedom (OIF)
         Active Duty status
         Service connection conditions and rating
  
 Notes:
 Class 3 to Class 1: CPRS - Number of Notes "Add Total Count of Notes" for 
 Progress Notes (NSR 20080314, CQ 18884) 
 On the Notes tab, CPRS displays a label over the Notes tree view, for 
 example, Last 100 Signed Notes, but CPRS did not indicate how many total 
 notes the patient had. Developers took functionality developed at a site 
 and incorporated it into CPRS. Now, after the label above the Notes tab 
 tree view (for example, Last 100 Signed Notes), the number of total notes 
 is displayed, for example, (Total: 20).
  
 Order Checks:
 Drug Dosage Order Checks Added to CPRS v.28 (Pharmacy Reengineering 
 Support)
 CPRS now sends information to Pharmacy to enable the checking of 
 medication dosages prescribed for patients. This order checks occurs when 
 a user accepts an order. The dosage order check settings are centrally 
 controlled by the generically defined "DRUG DOSAGE" entry in the ORDER 
 CHECKS file. There are three order checks that are part of the generic 
 Dosage Order Check:
         Maximum Single Dose is caused by the dosage of a single 
 administration being above a therapeutic level for the specific drug. 
 Patient factors such as height and weight can be included in determining 
 the appropriate level for the drug.
         Maximum Range Dose is caused by the combined dosage during a 
 period of time being above or below a set range for the specific drug 
 being ordered.  Patient factors such as height and weight can be included 
 in determining the range for the drug.
         General Dosing Information can display when for some reason the 
 Maximum Single Dose and Maximum Range Dose order checks cannot be 
 performed. A few possible reasons include the following:
 o       Scenario 1:  Identify drugs that require a weight where patient 
 does not have weight defined. 
 o       Scenario 2: Identify drugs that require a BSA ( no height or 
 weight defined)..i.e. Etoposide PO;  
 o       Scenario 3:  Put in an order with a schedule that does not have a 
 frequency defined. That should also give you a general dosing range.
  
         Errors and Exceptions can occur when data is missing or some 
 other problem came up when trying to perform the dosage checks, for 
 example a missing route or a drug not correctly defined.
  
  
 Site-Defined Clinical Reminders Order Checks (NSR 20070103, CQ 18334)
 Site-defined Clinical Reminder order checks enable sites to use reminder 
 functionality, both reminder terms and reminder definitions, to perform 
 checks for groups of orderable items. The site defines orderable items 
 groups and then rules to check when the user selects Accept for that 
 order. As part of the order check, the site also defines the text that 
 CPRS will display when the order matches the rule. The displayed text may 
 give the ordering clinician advice on how to proceed or a warning that 
 the site determines will help providers during the ordering process. The 
 text can also include Text Integration Utility (TIU) objects.
 Sites can place orderable items in more than one group based on the rules 
 that Clinical Reminders will use against the groups. 
 Two considerations when implementing site-defined Clinical Reminder order 
 checks include system performance and file maintenance. 
         Using a large number of reminders in the order check process 
 could have an effect on system responsiveness. 
         The Reminder Order Check file, file #801, stores a pointer to an 
 entry in the Orderable Item file, file #101.43. Because the order checks 
 use orderable items, but the changes to the Orderable Item file do not 
 automatically make changes to the Reminder Order Check file, Clinical 
 Application Coordinators (CACs) or similar personnel at your site will 
 need to manually maintain this file.
  
 Orders:
 Add New IV Additive Frequency Field to Infusion Dialog
 To support the Pharmacy Reengineering (PRE) project, CPRS developers 
 added a new Additive Frequency field for continuous infusion orders in 
 the Infusion Order dialog. The Additive Frequency field's purpose is to 
 help the provider communicate into which bag or bags the pharmacist 
 should place the additive and enable minimum and maximum daily dosage 
 order checks to occur based on the additive quantity and additive 
 frequency.
 In this field, the user can select one of three choices:
         1 Bag/Day - The additive should be put in a single bag for the 
         defined duration.
         All Bags - The additive should be placed in each bag.
         See Comments - This choice is to enable the provider to give 
 specific instructions to the pharmacist instead of the other choices. 
 Because it does not enable CPRS to calculate a dosage, it is not possible 
 to do the minimum and maximum daily dosage order check.
  
 Defect Fixes
 ============
 About CPRS
         Help | About CPRS Display with Information on How to Log a Remedy 
 Ticket and Remove Reference to Email Address (CQ 18721) - Previously, 
 CPRS changed the splash screen to remove a reference to email address 
 that is no longer monitored and instead direct users to contact their 
 local support desk if they need help. The same change needed to be made 
 to the About CPRS dialog that displays when a user selects Help | About.
 Resolution: Developers made this change to the About CPRS dialog.
  
 Allergies
         OK Button Erroneously Becomes Disabled on Allergy Dialog when 
 Specific Steps Are Followed (Remedy 153279, CQ 15770) - Previously, if 
 the user did the following specific steps, the user could produce this 
 problem of the OK button being greyed out:
 a)      Select a patient that has not had an allergy assessment.
 b)      Enter a new allergy.
 c)      Check the 'no known allergies' check box.
 d)      Then uncheck.
 e)      Notice that the OK button is grayed out, even after performing a 
         search. 
  
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to correct this problem. If the user 
 performs a search after the prior mentioned scenario, the OK button 
 should be enabled.
  
         Marking Allergy Entered In Error Crashes CPRS (CQ 18650)
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. This was fixed along with 
 some other issues when some allergy related dialogs were made non-modal.
  
  
  
 Consults
         Can Order Consults to a Disabled Service / Specialty (Remedy 
 69788, CQ 15781) - Previously, if a quick order was set up before the 
 service or specialty was disabled, users could place a quick order to a 
 disabled service or specialty. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem, and users can no longer 
 order to a disabled service or specialty through a quick order.
  
         Can't Name a Consult Quick Order the Same Name as a Consult 
 Service or It Fails to Function (Remedy 70920, CQ 15782) - This problem 
 involved 2 issues.  First, if the site created a quick order (QO) with 
 the same name as a service or specialty, then the user selected the QO, 
 the user could not finish ordering the QO. The software could not resolve 
 the name of the Consult Service as the QO entry would be encountered 
 first. Second, when a QO with the same name as a Service Consult existed, 
 the Service Consult did not load in the selection list.  
 Resolution: Developers corrected both issues.
  
         When Saving a Quick Order, the Consult Quick Order Definition Can 
 Have Left Over Text (Remedy 138939, CQ 15783) - Previously, this problem 
 could occur when a user was saving a consult quick order. If the quick 
 order initially had text in the Reason for Request field, but the user 
 had removed the text, CPRS incorrectly saved the quick order with the 
 text even though the field was blank when the quick order was saved. The 
 problem would not appear until a user placed the quick order.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the text should be 
 cleared appropriately when it is removed from the Reason for Request 
 field. 
  
         Building the Consults Service Tree (Remedy 143621, 160573, CQ 
 15784) - Previously, CPRS could take between 15 to 60 seconds to build 
 the Consults tree if the site had a large number of consults. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         On a Consult Request, There Is No Indicator of Which Consult 
 Request Is Being Completed (Remedy 69525, CQ 15785) - Previously, when 
 the user was doing a clinical complete on a consult, there was no 
 indication of which consult the user was completing. The consults tree 
 view was grayed out.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. When taking an action, 
 such as completing, writing a note, or scheduling, etc., the consult on 
 which the user is taking action will be the only consult selected in the 
 tree view.
  
         Cosigners Can't Addend Unsigned Consults on Consults Tab, but Can 
 on Notes Tab (Remedy #70163, CQ 15786) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. Cosigners can addend an 
 unsigned consult on both tabs.
         Consults:  Can't View Consult Details from the Consults Tab (CQ 
 17586) - When the user was writing a consults note on the Consults tab, 
 the user was unable to view the details of the consult while writing the 
 note.
 Resolution: To enable the user to view the consults details, developers 
 added the View Consults Details to the right-click popup menu. If the 
 user is writing a note and right-clicks on the note, the user can select 
 the View Consults Details menu item that will display the consult 
 details. The user can then close the detail window and continue writing 
 the note.
  
         Consult "Reason for Request" Scrollbar Limitation (Remedy 337505, 
 CQ 18623) - Previously, there was a problem with the scrollbar not 
 working properly in some text boxes. If the user entered text that went 
 beyond the bottom of the Reason for Request box, the scrollbar did not 
 work properly. Sometimes the scrollbar did not display and sometimes it 
 did display, but not correctly.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the scrollbars should 
 work correctly. 
  
         Consult Templates Producing Pointer Errors (CQ 19137) - 
 Previously, if a user placed an order set with a Consult or Procedure 
 containing a template for the first item and then the user canceled the 
 order set before the template was complete, CPRS gave an error.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         Consult Edit/Resubmit Form Missing Resubmit/Cancel Buttons (CQ 
 19228) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         Button Layout on Procedure Edit/Resubmit Form (CQ 19229) - There 
 was a problem with where the buttons on this form were displaying.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
  
 Debugging Tools
         Change RPC Log to Display Based on Command Line Parameter instead 
 of XUPROGMODE Key (CQ 17922) - Previously, to see the remote procedure 
 calls (RPCs) that CPRS had made from the Help menu, the user needed to 
 have the XUPROGMODE key. Even with this key, the user could only see the 
 last ten RPCs. If the user did not have the XUPROGMODE key, the user 
 could use the command-line switch SHOWRPCS, but the RPCs would flash by 
 very quickly on the bottom of the CPRS window as CPRS made the 
 calls-making it difficult to see and remember them. 
 Resolution: To improve the debugging capability of CPRS, developers 
 changed how the SHOWRPCS command-line switch works. SHOWRPCS now makes 
 the debugging tools available from the Help menu. Now, any user that puts 
 the command-line switch SHOWRPCS in the shortcut to the CPRS executable 
 can then user the Last Broker Call menu item to view the last 100 RPCs.
  
  
 Electronic Signature
         Signature Form Not Appearing in One Encounter Switch Scenario (CQ 
 18121) - Previously, the following scenario created a problem where the 
 signature form did not display when it should have:
 a)      Select an outpatient; set the visit to a clinic location. 
 b)      Write event delayed orders for an inpatient event but do not sign.
 c)      Admit the patient to trigger the release event. 
 d)      In CPRS, select the order, then right-click the order
 e)      Select Sign.
 The user then had to right-click and select Sign a second time.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to ensure that the signature dialog 
 box displays when it should.
  
         Signature Box Doesn't Wrap Text Properly with Non-VA (Remedy 
 246721, CQ 18264) - The text on the signature box was not wrapping 
 correctly with Non-VA medications.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to wrap the text correctly.
  
  
 Encounter
         Clinic/PCP Text Scrolling Off Screen (Remedy 259143,  CQ 18169) - 
 Previously, there was a strange problem where the text on the Encounter 
 Location and Provider button would move up and off the button when users 
 clicked or double-clicked the button several times.
 Resolution: Developers identified and corrected the problem so that the 
 text should display appropriately.
  
  
 Event-Delayed Orders
         <UNDEFINED> AUTH+2^ORWDPS32-M Error when Adding to Delayed Orders 
 (CQ 17369) - Previously, when a user who has neither the PROVIDER nor 
 ORES key and they are trying to write a medication order for existing 
 delayed orders, CPRS displayed this error: <UNDEFINED> AUTH+2^ORWDPS32.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem and CPRS no longer gives 
 this error in this circumstance.
  
         Some EDO Orders Appear to Vanish under Particular Circumstances 
 (CQ 18392) - Under specific circumstances and during the signature 
 process, delayed orders seem to disappear although the orders have not 
 gone away. To see this, the user would have to do the following;
 a)      Select an outpatient. 
 b)      Write (but do not sign) event delayed orders for an admission 
 event. 
 c)      Admit the patient and trigger the release event. 
 d)      Right-click the order.
 e)      Select Sign. 
  
 You get a warning about how the release event has occurred (as expected). 
 However, the signature dialog did not display nor was the event category 
 listed in the View Orders pane.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. The signature dialog now 
 displays when appropriate. 
  
         Data Dictionary for 100.5, Field 2, Description Needs to Be 
 Updated (CQ 18673) - The description for this field was slightly unclear.
 Resolution: Developers updated the description of this field.
  
  
 General Dialog Displays
         Text Display Forms Present Double Scroll Bars under Some 
 Conditions (Remedy 348473, CQ 18715) - Previously, if a user shrunk text 
 dialogs to a small size, CPRS displayed double scroll bars.
 Resolution: Developers added a minimum size constraint so that the 
 problem did not appear.
  
 Graphing
         Range Check Error Generated in Graphing When High User DUZ Values 
 Are Used (Remedy 216970, CQ 15852) - Previously, if users had high values 
 for their DUZ (an internal identification number that CPRS uses), CPRS 
 sometimes experienced range check errors in conjunction with graphing.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and users should no longer 
 see the range check errors.
  
         Anomaly in CPRS Graphing Tool (Remedy 336061, CQ 18609) - 
 Previously, if a user set up a view in the graphing tool and saved the 
 view, the name of the test changed to a patient name (not that of the 
 patient's chart the user was in). The patient name also displayed under 
 View Definitions. The problem was that CPRS was replacing the internal 
 number CPRS uses for the test with an internal number identifying the 
 patient.
 Resolution: CPRS developers corrected the problem and the appropriate 
 name displays.
  
         Graphing: High/low Reference Ranges Listed for Labs when Graphing 
 Shows Incorrect Range (Remedy 300452, CQ 18174) - Previously, the 
 graphing reference ranges displayed by CPRS are the current ranges. The 
 ranges in the detailed display were correct.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem by having CPRS display the 
 same test with different reference ranges on different graphs.
  
  
 Internal File Access
         OR Recommended Changes for ICD and ICPT File Access (CQ 18180) - 
 Previously, packages were doing direct global reads to get ICD and ICPT 
 data from File 80 and File 81.
 Resolution: Following recommendations, the CPRS developers changed the 
 direct global reads to API calls.
  
  
 Lab
         Labs Tab:  "Go to Top"/"Go to Bottom" do not function on the lab 
 Cumulative Window (CQ 17112) - Users reported that the Go to Top and Go 
 to Bottom menu items did not work. Upon researching the problem, 
 developers discovered that Freeze and Unfreeze items were also not 
 working correctly.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and these menu items now 
 work correctly. Developers also made changes to the Reports tab to make 
 the changes consistent between the two tabs.
  
         Labs Tab Adjustable Divider Becomes Fixed (Microbiology and 
 Anatomic Pathology) (CQ 17547) - Previously, when a user went into CPRS, 
 navigated to the Labs tab, and viewing Microbiology or Anatomic Pathology 
 data, CPRS displayed  an adjustable splitter bar that the user could 
 adjust relative to the list of accessions available for display. However, 
 if the user selected a different tab or report and then returned to the 
 Microbiology or Anatomic Pathology display, the splitter bar dividing the 
 window is not selectable or movable. It remained fixed where the user 
 left it when moving to another tab or report. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the splitter bar would 
 stay active (movable) for the life of the session.
  
         Lab Worksheet: Make Selection of Lab Group then Select Remove 
 All-Cannot Reselect Group Previously Highlighted (CQ 18096) - When using 
 the worksheet, if the user made a selection of a lab group and then 
 selected Remove All, the user could not reselect the lab group that the 
 user already highlighted. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem, and users can now reselect 
 the lab group.
  
         CPRS Printing of Lab AP Reports Truncation (CQ 18128) - 
 Previously, when printing Anatomic Pathology reports, the line was too 
 long and was truncated. In this case, the accession number was truncated, 
 making it difficult to know what the correct number was. 
 Resolution: CPRS developers removed two spaces that preceded the text in 
 each line. As a result, the full line should display correctly.
  
         Lab collection issues in CPRS (Remedy #275554, CQ 18473) - 
 Previously, in the lab ordering dialog, the collection sample window did 
 not expand to help users select items that began with similar words. For 
 example, if a user tried to order a lab test for blood gas by selecting 
 arterial or venous or mixed, it was difficult because each item at a site 
 might start with "PORTEX SYRINGE". 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         Lab: Patient Has Lab Results in Most Recent Results but Label 
 Contains "No Lab Results" (CQ 18553) - Previously, if a patient had only 
 one lab collection without result, the label would read, "NO LAB 
 RESULTS", which could be confusing.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         Anatomic Path Reports Disappearing (Remedy 308138, 301412, CQ 
 18267, 18268) - Previously, if a user were viewing information on the 
 Labs and Reports tabs, CPRS could get confused and not clear variables as 
 it should. The result was that information might not be displayed or 
 information from the previous tab might be displayed. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. As the user switches 
 between the Labs and Reports tabs, CPRS clears the appropriate variables 
 and the correct information is displayed. 
 Note:   This item is duplicated under the Reports heading because it 
 affects both tabs.
  
  
         Labs: Date Range Display Issue (CQ 18600) - When user set the 
 date range, CPRS GUI is filtering and displaying the data 
 correctly-except in the date range at the top of the results pane.  This 
 issue affected the All Tests by Date, Selected Tests by Date, Worksheet, 
 and Lab Status reports. The Microbiology report handled the date ranges 
 correctly.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the date range at the 
 top of the results pane now displays correctly.
  
         LR 395 Change Most Recent Lab Results to  Lab Status (CQ 18648) - 
 Site reported that although the specimen has only been accessioned 
 (Collected - Specimen in Lab), the label "Most Recent Lab Result" can be 
 misleading, and perhaps the column heading of "Result" should it say 
 "Status" instead. 
 Resolution: Developers made the following changes to clarify what users 
 are seeing. Developers modified the Most Recent Lab Results label to read 
 Most Recent Lab Data. Developers changed the Result column header in Most 
 Recent Report to Result / Status, and removed the Laboratory Result text 
 in header label to make consistent with Reports Tab Functionality.
  
         LR Display Status: Add Oldest, Previous, Next, Newest to Most 
 Recent Buttons Back/Forward Symbols (CQ 18798, NSR 20070438) - 
 Previously, the button to move the Oldest, Previous, Next, and Newest 
 were simply arrows on the buttons. There was no other visual cue to tell 
 the users what the buttons did.
 Resolution: Developers put the appropriate words on the appropriate 
 buttons: Oldest, Previous, Next, and Newest.
  
         LR Display Status: Most Recent Report Should Not Display the Date 
 Twice at Top of Display Page (CQ 18799, NSR 20070438) - Previously, CPRS 
 displayed the date twice on the top of the Most Recent report in labs. 
 Resolution: Developers removed the redundant date.
  
         LR Display Status: Most Recent Report Change Result Columns to 
 Add Collected Date/Time First (CQ 18800, NSR 20070438) - Previously, the 
 Most Recent lab display did not have a column for the date and time 
 collected.
 Resolution: Developers added a new column for the Collection Date/time at 
 the beginning of the line for the lab test.
  
         Clicking OK on Worksheet, Get Can't Focus A Disabled Window 
 (Remedy 364439, CQ 19075) - Previously, when a user had worked on the Lab 
 Worksheet and then gone to another tab and returned, CPRS would give the 
 "Cannot Focus on a Disabled Window" error.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. 
  
  
 Location Switch
         Refresh Location Form Pops Up on Select New Patient (CQ 18393) - 
 Previously, if a patient was in an outpatient clinic and was admitted or 
 if an inpatient was in an outpatient clinic, and the user switched 
 patients or began to exit the chart and chose not to sign the orders, the 
 Location Switch dialog displayed when it should not have.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem, and the form should 
 display appropriately.
  
         Order Prints at Old Location (PSPO 1087, Remedy 277718, 280707, 
 284718, 29171, CQ 17760) - If a user placed an order at one location but 
 did not release the order, and then the patient is transferred and the 
 user signed the order, the order prints at the old location, not the new 
 one.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. The order prints to the 
 appropriate location.
  
 Medications
         Release Hold Action Not on Meds Tab ACTION Menu (Remedy 297242, 
 CQ 17867) 
 Resolution: Developers added the Release Hold items to the on the Meds 
 tab Action menu.
  
 Non-VA Medications
         Auto-accept Not Supported on Vista Non-VA Medications Quick 
 Orders (CQ 18333) - In previous versions of CPRS, VistA Non-VA 
 medications quick orders showed the auto-accept prompt. At some point, 
 the auto-accept prompt was removed for this type of quick order.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the prompt is once 
 again presented to the user (usually a clinical coordinator) creating the 
 VistA non-VA medication quick order.
  
  
 Notifications
         When Orders Are Lapsed, the Unsigned Order Notification Does NOT 
 Go Away (CQ 17536) - When orders lapsed, the unsigned order notification 
 did not go away. Because it displayed in CPRS, a user could try to 
 process the alert and be taken to a screen that did not have any action 
 to take. The order was gone and no signature was needed.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem. When all orders have 
 lapsed, the notification will be removed also. If any orders that require 
 signature have not lapsed, the notification will display so that the user 
 can sign the orders.
  
         Notifications:  Lab Result Action Alert in Conjunction with a 
 Critical Info Alert Incorporates Test Name from Previous Alerts (CQ 
 17548) - When a lab result generates a CPRS Lab resulted action alert in 
 conjunction with a Critical lab(s) action alert, the alert message 
 incorporates the test name from previous alerts even when the same test 
 is being alerted. For example, when a CO2 is alerted the action alert has 
 the test name "CHEM7". If that CO2 is then alerted subsequently the 
 follow-on alerts have the test name repeated. As shown below, the test 
 name "Chem 7" was repeated several times:' 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. CPRS will now display the 
 test name only once.
  
         Missing Sort Method for Patient Alerts Causes Access Violation 
 (Remedy 311909, CQ 18250) - A user was constantly getting an access error 
 when logging on to every computer. The problem was that the site had 
 deleted the PACKAGE and SYSTEM level parameter setting for the ORB SORT 
 METHOD parameter. Because the user did not have a user level setting, the 
 access error occurred. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem by making the Date/Time 
 sort method the default if the parameter does not have a value set at the 
 user level.
  
         Pt Selection Dialog: Double-Clicking on Notification Does Not Go 
 to Pt. Chart until Mouse Is Moved (CQ 18657) - Previously, if a user 
 double-clicked on an alert or notification from the Patient Selection 
 screen, CPRS did not go to the patient chart until the user moved the 
 mouse. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and double-clicking on a 
 notification or alert does go to the chart whether the mouse is moved or 
 not.
  
  
 Order Checks
         Flaws in "No Allergy Assessment" Order Check (CQ 9875) - In the 
 Order Check window, it was difficult to know which order check was 
 requiring a reason for override.
 Resolution: The Order Check in blue is the one that needs a reason for 
 override.
  
         Differentiate Order Checks from One Another when Multiple Order 
 Checks Are Displayed (CQ 15323) - Previously, the order check display 
 could be somewhat busy and confusing. 
 Resolution: To improve readability, developers removed the underlining 
 that was on order checks, added a blank line between each one, added a 
 number for each (e.g., 2 of 6), and made the window taller. 
  
         Initiate "No Allergy Assessment Order Check when Order Is Signed 
 (CQ 13525) - Previously, if a user wrote and order but did not sign it, 
 and then entered a "No Known Allergy" assessment, CPRS had already stored 
 that no assessment was done. Therefore, when the order was signed, CPRS 
 displayed the warning that the patient needed an allergy assessment.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to check for an allergy assessment 
 when the order is signed as well and when the user begins entering 
 orders. Therefore, if the user completes the assessment between the time 
 the user accepts the order and the time the user signs the order, CPRS 
 does not display the order check.
  
         Order Check:  Reason for OC Not Displayed in OC Message Text (No 
 Allergy Assessment) (CQ 17384) - In this case, the patient allergy status 
 was "not assessed". When the user entered an order, CPRS displayed the 
 order check dialog, but there was no reason in the text stating what the 
 order check was.
 Resolution: Developers corrected a height limit on the display and the 
 text will now display correctly.
  
         When Multiple Order Checks Are Displayed, It Is Difficult to 
 Distinguish Each Order Check (CQ 18391, 18589) - This is similar to CQ 
 15323. The users asked to have an improvement.
 Resolution: To improve readability, developers removed the underlining 
 that was on order checks, added a blank line between each one, added a 
 number for each (e.g., 2 of 6), and made the window taller.
  
         NVA Auto-accept Quick Orders Do Not Generate Order Checks 
 (CQ18692) - Non-VA Medication auto-accept quick orders were not 
 generating the appropriate order checks.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem and the Non-VA Medication 
 quick orders should now have the appropriate order checks.
  
         Order Checks:  #4 Mark or Split Up Order Checks that Caused 
 Justification Necessity (CQ 16782) - Users asked for changes to the order 
 check display to make it clearer to users. In this case, the request was 
 to separate and make it clearer which order check requires a reason for 
 override justification.
 Resolution: Developers changed the CPRS order check display to show those 
 items that need an override reason are displayed in blue, labeled as high 
 severity, and are at the top of the group of order checks.
  
         Caret Special Character Not Being Edited Out in Order Check 
 Justification Text Area (CQ 18890) - Previously, the up caret (^) could 
 be placed in the text area for the order check justification. This 
 created some problems with strange characters being displayed.
 Resolution: Developers added a check to CPRS so that the caret can no 
 longer be placed in the order check justification text area. If the user 
 does place a caret there, CPRS displays a warning message informing the 
 user that the character is not allowed.
  
         Polypharmacy OC - Location Parameter Customization Suggestion 
 Does Not Work (CQ 19119) - During testing, test personnel discovered that 
 the customization suggestion of the ORK PROCESSING FLAG was not correct. 
 Resolution: Because the suggestion was not working, it was removed from 
 the manual.
  
         Help Text Is Confusing Regarding Schedule Type (Quick Order) (CQ 
 19610) - Previously, there was some confusion regarding some help text in 
 the Quick Order Editor. As it turned out, the problem was not with the 
 help text, but with the way the order validation was working. Instead of 
 verifying the schedule type on the specific schedule entered, it was 
 evaluating all schedules with a similar name. For example: ON CALL was 
 looking at ON CALL, ON CALL ABC and ON CALL XYZ.
 Resolution: The validation was changed so that it now only evaluates the 
 specific schedule selected for the order.
  
 Order Dialogs
         Diet Orders: Prevent Tube Feeding Orders from Accepting C and CC 
 Values, Enforcing M for ML Values, and Change Messages (Remedy 146664, CQ 
 15833) - CPRS used to accept cubic centimeters (cc) in the quantity 
 field, but it was inappropriate to do so. Although it was not 
 appropriate, the dialog that CPRS displayed it something was missing or 
 inappropriately entered mentioned CCs as well.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to automatically convert CCs into 
 milliliters (ml). Developers also changed the text in the order dialog to 
 remove the reference to cubic centimeters.
  
         Can't Do Long List Scroll Up on Additives List, on IV Order 
 Dialog (Remedy 138908, CQ 15867)  - In the Infusion Order dialog when 
 either the additives or solutions list contained more than 44 items, a 
 problem could occur with navigating the list. If the user moved to the 
 bottom of the list using the arrow keys and then tried to return to the 
 top of the list using arrow keys, the list would not move back up. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem with the lists.
  
         Change Order's Tab Provider Column to Include the Entire First 
 Name of the Provider (Remedy 69185, CQ 15915) 
 Resolution: Developers changed the Order tab so that the provider's last 
 and first name both display.
  
         Select Blank Line and Return to the Orders Tab with No Changes 
 (CQ 16929) - Previously, CPRS allowed users to select a blank line or a 
 black line from lists. 
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS so that if the user selects something 
 invalid, such as a blank or black (dividing) line, CPRS displays a 
 message and returns the user to the list for a valid selection.
  
         If Medication Order Dialog Width Is Shrunk Down Too Small, 
 Pick-Up Values Will Overlap Days Supply and Quantity Fields (CQ 17324) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem by establishing a minimum 
 width. With a font size of 18 point, there may still be some overlap, but 
 the fields are still usable. 
  
         Charleston: ACCEPT Button on Opt Order Dialogs Floats (CQ17367) - 
 Previously, the Accept button on the Outpatient Order dialogs did not 
 adjust appropriately. It appeared to move over part of the dialog where 
 it should not have been. 
 Resolution: Developers made a change that should help the Accept button 
 be in the right location. There may still be some overlap at the 18-point 
 font size, but it should not interfere with the dialog's function.
  
         Orders Tab--Move up the Write Delayed Orders Row covers up View 
 Orders/Active Orders Section (CQ 17440) - Previously, the user could 
 adjust the dialog, moving up the Write Delayed Orders row, which then 
 covers up the View Orders/Active Orders section. Users had to log off and 
 relaunch CPRS to correct this problem.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. The user can no longer 
 cover up the other part of the dialog.
  
         Unable to Renew Order Message Not Grammatically Correct (CQ 
 17443) - Previously, there was a grammatical error on the Unable to Renew 
 Order dialog. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected the error.
  
         Vertically Stretched Generic Text Order Dialog Won't Return to 
 Normal Size (CQ 17669)
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         Imaging Orders:  Research Pop-up Box-Selection List Is Not 
 Selectable and User-typed Text Does Not Display (Remedy 296471, CQ 17702) 
 - Previously, if a user were placing an imaging order and the user 
 selected Research, Contract, or Sharing, a dialog popped up for more 
 information. However in the Contract/Sharing/Research Source dialog, the 
 user could not enter text or select anything from the drop-down lists.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem, and the user can now 
 select from a drop-down or can type in text.
  
         Order Dialog Increases in Size (Stretching from the Bottom) as 
 the Similar Orders Are Placed (CQ 18428) - Each time a user placed 
 additional orders in the same dialog, the dialog would grow slightly. 
 This was most noticeable if the user placed a large number of the same 
 orders from the same dialog. The only way to correct the problem was to 
 reset the Size & Position Settings for User, but then the problem begins 
 again.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. 
  
         Lab Collection Issues in CPRS (Remedy 275554, CQ 18473) - 
 Previously, if a user hovered over a drop-down list selection in the 
 Collection Sample window, a hint would display behind the drop-down list, 
 making it unreadable. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem, and now when the user 
 hovers over the selection, CPRS will display a hint that shows the full 
 text in the selection.
  
         Add Clinic Infusion Orders Label to the Infusion Order Dialog (CQ 
 19231) - Previously, whether the user selected the Infusion dialog for an 
 outpatient clinic or an Inpatient Medication for Outpatient (IMO) clinic, 
 the dialog label was the same. Test sites requested that CPRS developers 
 change the label to help users identify that the user is writing orders 
 for an IMO clinic.
 Resolution: Developers changed the label for the Infusion order dialog 
 when the user is ordering in an IMO clinic to Clinic Infusion Order 
 dialog. 
  
  
  
 Order Files
         Nature of Order - Change SERVICE REJECT to REJECTED by SERVICE 
 (CQ 15313) - Previously, in the Nature of Order file, the user could 
 select a nature of order with a single letter. In this file, the letter 
 for SERVICE CORRECTION was "S" while the letter for SERVICE REJECTION was 
 "R". This was confusing to users who might incorrectly assume that "S" 
 was for SERVICE REJECTION and choose the wrong Nature of Order.
 Resolution: Developers changed the Nature of Order file so that the 
 wording for SERVICE REJECTION is now REJECTED BY SERVICE. This should 
 make it easier for users to pick the "R" for the correct REJECTED BY 
 SERVICE. CPRS will only see this change in the Order Details display 
 after an order has been rejected by service.
  
 Order Printing
         Delayed Text Orders Will Be Printing at the Expected Location, 
 Rather than the Current Location (Remedy 277146, CQ 17606) - In CPRS GUI 
 v.26, if a user entered delayed admission, discharge, or transfer (A/D/T) 
 orders, the order printed in the current encounter location. With CPRS 
 GUI v.27, the order printed in the location associated with the A/D/T 
 orders. 
 Resolution: As per feedback from CPRS test sites, developers changed the 
 print location back to the current encounter location unless there is a 
 conflict in the patient's location. If there a conflict in the patient's 
 location, CPRS displays the form that enables the user to specify at 
 which location the orders should print.
  
 Order Sets
         Access Violations when Order Sets Are Nested inside Other Order 
 Sets (Remedy 69535, CQ 15856) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. Users should no longer 
 experience the access violation.
  
         "A Component Named OMNavA Already Exists" Error (Remedy 151361, 
 CQ 15857) - When order sets are nested inside other order sets, and these 
 order sets contain order menus, CPRS displayed "A component named OMNavA 
 already exists" error.  
 Resolution: Developers corrected this issue.
  
 Orders
         IV Meds Order Dialog Is Not Sorting the Medication Correctly (CQ 
 15038) - Previously, with a long list of solutions in the Infusion Order 
 dialog, if the user scrolled through the list, duplicate items would 
 appear (the list would repeat itself). 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the list no longer 
 repeats itself as the user scrolls through it.
  
         The Character ^ Is Allowed on the CPRS GUI Side but Not the 
 Pharmacy Side (Remedy 210792, CQ 15368) - Previously, the CPRS GUI 
 accepted the up caret (^) in orders and comments. This caused problems 
 because Pharmacy did not accept these characters. 
 Resolution: Developers correctly this and CPRS will not longer allow this 
 character in orders or comments.
  
         Modify "Give additional dose now" Warning Message (Remedy 218153, 
 CQ 15777) - There was some confusion when a provider entered an inpatient 
 order and selected the option to "Give additional dose now", CPRS created 
 two orders. Some providers did not understand that if they selected 
 "STAT" for the urgency, it affected both orders. Two STAT orders confused 
 nursing staff that were supposed to implement the orders.
 Resolution: As part of the short term solution for this problem, 
 developers added a new message to CPRS when the provider selects "Give 
 additional dose now". The message reads as follows: 
 By checking the "Give additional dose now" box, you have actually entered 
 two orders for the same medication "medication name"
  
 The "Give additional dose now" order has an administration schedule of 
 NOW and a priority of "priority".
 The "Ongoing" order has an administration schedule of "schedule" and a 
 priority of "priority".
  
         Display Text of Order Prompts (Remedy 70340, CQ 15849) - 
 Previously, the display text of order prompts, in generic orders, were 
 getting cut off at the bottom of letters that hang below the line, such 
 as y, p, g, q, etc.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem.
  
         Changing Collection Time Changes Urgency, even though Prior Value 
 of Urgency Is Still Valid (Remedy 69266, CQ 15868) - Previously, when the 
 user placed lab test orders from the CPRS Orders tab and changed the 
 urgency from Routine to another urgency and then entered the collection 
 type, the urgency incorrectly changes back to Routine.  
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the urgency should 
 remain as entered.
  
         Incorrect Error Message - User that Is Not Authorized to Place 
 Med Orders (Remedy 71069, CQ 15917) - A user that was not authorized to 
 place medication orders tried to place medication orders in a reminder 
 dialog. CPRS displayed a message that the encounter physician was not 
 authorized to place med orders. The message should have stated that the 
 current user was not being able to place med orders. The current user was 
 not authorized, but the encounter provider was.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. The correct user should be 
 in the message. This change applies to orders from order sets, quick 
 orders, and orders from reminder dialogs.
  
         Vertical Splitter above Write Orders Box Can Make View Orders 
 List Disappear (Remedy 70260, CQ 15922) - Previously, the user could move 
 the splitter bar above the Writer Orders box and cover the View Orders 
 list such that the user could not uncover it again.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         The Quantity Dispense Message from the DRUG File Isn't Being 
 Displayed during Complex Med Quick Orders (Remedy 71000, CQ 15933) - The 
 Quantity Dispense Message (QDM) did not display correctly for complex 
 quick orders that were not auto-accept quick orders. When CPRS displayed 
 the medication order dialog and the user clicked on the dose that had a 
 quantity dispense message, the message did not display, unless the user 
 clicked a different dose and then re-clicked the original dose.
 Resolution: Developers changed the complex Outpatient Medication Order 
 dialog to display a QDM when the user clicks anywhere in a row-if a QDM 
 was defined for the selected dose. The message does not display when the 
 quick order information first displays in the dialog.
  
         Mailout or Window Status and Quantity for Some Medications Is 
 Missing (CQ 16780) - Previously, if an order had a SIG over a specified 
 length, some information, such as mail out or window status or quantity, 
 on the Orders tab did not display correctly. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. However, the problem can 
 still occur if the user places an order from the Renew dialog.
  
         Cancelling Reason for Request for Generic and Quick Orders Still 
 Places Order (CQ 17871) - For Generic and Quick orders, if the user 
 cancelled a Reason for Request dialog, CPRS still places the order if it 
 is Auto-Accept (all required fields already have a default as part of the 
 quick order set up) or displays the quick order dialog if not Auto-Accept 
 (or has not answered required fields).
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS so that if the user cancels from the 
 template field, such as reason for request or comments, the order will 
 not be placed regardless of whether it was auto-accept or not. This 
 applies to all quick orders.
  
         Modify TORComboBox to Prevent:  Retention of Previously Selected 
 Entry when >>entry HIGHLIGHTED >>BACKSPACE>>ENTER (CQ 18173) - 
 Previously, if a field, such as the Route field, had a default value, but 
 the user wanted to change the value by highlighting it and backspacing 
 and then pressed <Enter>. It appeared to clear the value, but the value 
 was carried through. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. The combo boxes should now 
 function correctly.
  
         Order Screen Not Updating with Selected Formulary Alternative 
 (Remedy 297310, CQ 18234) - Previously, if the user selected a 
 non-formulary (NF) drug and then selected a formulary alternative drug, 
 the selected drug name might not update appropriately.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem, and the drug name should 
 update appropriately.
  
         VistA Intermittent IV QO w/PRN Only Schedule Is Stripped from 
 Order in CPRS (CQ 18402) - Previously, if a user selected a VistA 
 Intermittent IV quick order (QO) w/PRN only schedule to process, CPRS 
 inappropriately stripped the PRN schedule from the order. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected CPRS so that a VistA Intermittent IV 
 Quick Order with PRN only schedule is permitted, and CPRS displays the 
 PRN only schedule when QO is selected for processing.
  
         ADMIN Time: Not Defined for Quick Orders (CQ 18464) - Previously, 
 if a user selected an auto-accept quick order for an inpatient and then 
 before signing the order, the user decided to change the order, no 
 administration times were displayed. This would not be seen unless the 
 user tried to change the order because as it was an auto-accept quick 
 order, the administration times would not display.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem. If the user selects an 
 auto-accept quick order for an inpatient but decides to change it before 
 signing, the administration times display.
  
         List Index Out of Bounds (Remedy 321804, CQ 18474) - Previously, 
 when a user was trying to enter a brand name, CPRS displayed a "List out 
 of bounds" error.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         Ampersand in Delphi Controls (Remedy 268522, CQ 18475) - 
 Previously, putting an ampersand (&) in the display text of an order menu 
 could cause problems because CPRS recognized this as a command character 
 for Delphi. 
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS so that the ampersand would be 
 treated like a text character and not affect Delphi.
  
         Duration of nDOSES for a Continuous IV QO Is Accepted and Can Be 
 Signed in Certain Scenario (CQ 18555) - Previously, if a user was 
 defining an auto-accept intravenous (IV) quick order (QO), in a very 
 specific scenario, a problem could occur that enabled the user to place a 
 dose limitation on an intermittent quick order. When the quick order was 
 selected in CPRS, it would then immediately show as expired. 
 For this scenario to occur, the user would go into the VistA quick order 
 editor and define an intermittent quick order with a number of doses in 
 the limitation field. But when the user came to the (P)lace or (E)dit 
 prompt, if the user changed the IV type to Continuous, but did not edit 
 the limitation field, the order could be incorrectly accepted.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to delete the duration field if the 
 duration contains a DOSE value and the user changes the IV type.
  
         Can't Save Personal Quick Orders after Clicking "Write Delayed 
 Orders" (CQ 18660) - When a user was writing delayed orders and then 
 tried to save what the user had put in the dialog as a personal quick 
 order, the user could not save the order. This was functioning correctly. 
 However, even after getting out of the delayed order functionality, the 
 user could not save personal quick orders. The situation was not resolved 
 until the user closed and then launched CPRS again.
 Resolution: CPRS does not allow users to save personal quick orders while 
 writing delayed orders. However, CPRS developers corrected the problem of 
 not being able to save a personal quick order after exiting the delayed 
 ordering features. 
  
         Oddities on Form to Set Meds Tab Date Parameters (CQ 18675) - 
 Previously, there were problems with setting the date range on the Meds 
 tab:
 o       If the user did not enter both start and end dates, the entry is 
 inappropriately deleted, and the parameter is not updated
 o       The Date validation checker is inconsistent. Some dates (T-10y) 
 seem to be accepted but are silently deleted; other dates generate a 
 warning before the user is even finished typing. (For example, if the 
 user started with a date of Feb 2, 2009, and then deleted the last two 
 digits, CPRS displayed a warning even before the user had finished 
 entering the date.) 
 o       If the user typed any two digits of the year, CPRS displayed an 
 error message: "Start time cannot be greater than today", which is 
 incorrect.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the warning message.
  
         Discontinued Orders Don't Print to Ward in Encounter Switch 
 Scenarios (CQ 18676, 18677) - Previously, there was a problem with orders 
 not printing to the ward when the patient switched location during the 
 ordering session. The scenario causing this problem is as follows: 
 a)      A user wrote but did not sign orders in an ordering session.
 b)      The user discontinued but did not sign other orders.
 c)      The user began a new session.
 d)      During that session, the patient's location changed-the patient's 
 location in CPRS is different than the location in Vista: such as an 
 inpatient at an outpatient clinic, or an outpatient who is admitted after 
 the order is written but before it is signed).
 e)      When the user went to sign the orders, all orders displayed, as 
 expected. 
 f)      However, only the new orders displayed on the Encounter Switch 
 form, and only the new orders printed. Discontinued orders should have 
 printed at the ward location - they did not.
 Resolution: CPRS now deals with orders in the following ways:
 o       Non-delayed orders written in previous session display in 
 encounter switch form.
 o       All discontinued orders from current and previous session for 
 non-delayed orders print at the ward location.
  
         Personal Quick Orders Don't Save All Values Entered for Some Meds 
 (CQ 18695) - Previously, when the user saved a complex personal quick 
 order (QO) and then selected the personal quick order, the quantity value 
 that had been saved with the order did not fill in correctly. The 
 quantity was set to zero. During internal testing, the development team 
 also found that medication orders for tablets were functioning correctly.
 Resolution: Developers corrected these problems with tablet orders and 
 complex QO. With complex QO, the Days Supply will try to re-calculate. 
 The quantity may not re-calculate depending on the medication.
  
         Duration or Total Volume Field Drop-Down List Option "Doses" 
 Populates the List Each Time the User Selects "Intermittent" (CQ 18699) - 
 Previously, when placing an infusion order, the Duration or Total Volume 
 field drop-down list displayed several options (for example, L, ml, days, 
 hours, doses). If the user selected "intermittent" for the Type, an 
 additional doses item would display in the Duration or Total Volume field 
 drop-down list (for example, L, ml, days, hours, doses, doses). 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem, and selecting 
 "intermittent" will no longer add another "doses" item to the drop-down 
 list.
  
         Quantity Field Is Being Cleared for Certain Complex Orders when a 
 Comment Is Entered (Remedy 348919, CQ 18722) - Previously, if the user 
 attempted to place a complex medication quick order that had a free-text 
 dose and a quantity defined, CPRS would remove the quantity if the user 
 began to change a comment.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. The quantity remains the 
 same if the comment is changed, but it will recalculate if the user 
 changes other characteristics of the order, such as the schedule or the 
 dose. The quantity may change to zero based on what the user changes.
  
         Doses Listed Twice on INFUSION DIALOG (Remedy 3404255, CQ 19032) 
 - Previously, if a user entered part of an IV order, canceled the order, 
 and then reentered an order, the duration drop-down list would 
 incorrectly display some choices twice.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and CPRS should display 
 each selection only once.
  
         Complex Orders: Order Detail Not Being Updated for Order Checks 
 (CQ 19061) - Previously, CPRS did not put the order checks from the 
 parent order to the child orders created when the user accepts a complex 
 order.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the order check 
 information is not transferred to the child orders.
  
         Keep the Day-of-Week Schedule Field Consistent with the Other 
 Schedule Forms (CQ 19156) - Sites testing CPRS v.28 asked if this dialog 
 should have the same functionality that other dialogs use where if a 
 unique schedule is not selected and the user tabs out of the field, then 
 CPRS displays an error message.  Also, should the CTRL+ENTER 
 functionality work for this dialog like others?
 Resolution: Developers added a warning message that displays when exiting 
 the schedule field if the schedule field does not contains a selection of 
 non-unique schedule. Developers also added a warning message if the 
 schedule field contains a control character. The CTRL+ENTER functionality 
 is not and it should not be supported on this dialog.
  
         IV Infusion Dialog Drop-down Problem  Related to Solution/ 
 Additive tab Switching (CQ 19220) - Previously, when the user selected 
 the first solution for the order and the item had more than one volume, 
 the drop-down list would display for the user to select, but then CPRS 
 immediately switched to the Additive tab before the user could make a 
 volume selection. 
 Resolution: Developers changed how the dialog functions. The dialog will 
 no longer switch to the additive tab if the user needs to make a volume 
 selection. Instead, if there are multiple values or multiple defaults for 
 the first solution selected for the order, the Volume drop-down will 
 remain open until the user makes a selection or moves to a different part 
 of the dialog. 
  
         Help Text for Intermittent & Continuous Type Orders Need to Be 
 Edited to Make Distinction of DOSE Field (CQ 19452) - In the VistA Quick 
 Order Editor, after converting the Quick Order to Continuous when the 
 user returns to  the Doses Field and enters ??,  the Help Text still 
 states that DOSES can be placed into this field, which is incorrect.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the Help Text.
  
  
 Parameter Changes/Additions
         Enhance ORWOR CATEGORY SEQUENCE Parameter Definition to Include 
 USER as a Selection (Remedy 105173, CQ 16601) - A site wanted to be able 
 to set up a user-level sequence to help a visually impaired user work 
 more efficiently.
 Resolution: Developers added the User-level setting for the parameter.
  
         Modify the OR RA RFS CARRY ON Parameter to Include Division, 
 Location, User, Service, System and Package Levels (CQ 16920) - 
 Previously, this parameter could only be set at the System level.
 Resolution: As requested, this parameter was expanded to have more levels 
 at which it can be set: Package, System, Division, Service, and User.
  
         Two CPRS Parameters Have the Same Parameter Description (Remedy 
 69631, CQ 17700) - A user reported that two parameters, ORW ADDORD INPT 
 and ORWOR WRITE ORDERS LIST, had the same description. 
 Resolution: While researching the similar descriptions, developers 
 discovered that the parameter ORW ADDORD INPT was no longer in use. The 
 CPRS GUI v.28 installation will delete this parameter at sites. In 
 addition, the developers added to the ORWOR WRITE ORDER LIST parameter 
 description that it has been superseded by the parameter ORWDX WRITE 
 ORDERS LIST and that it is there only for backwards compatibility.
  
         VBECS: Test Site Wants a Parameter for Changing Order of 
 Diagnostic Tests (Remedy 380789, CQ 18426) 
 Resolution: Developers added a new parameter OR VBECS DIAGNOSTIC TEST 
 ORDER to enable sites to rearrange the order of diagnostic tests at the 
 System, Division, or User level. Sites can change sequence numbers to put 
 the list of tests in whatever order the site chooses. The site can also 
 remove a test from the list by deleting the corresponding sequence 
 number. 
  
         Need Parameter ORWT TOOLS MENU Description Updated for Submenu 
 Info (Remedy 162367, CQ 19054) - With the addition of submenus to the 
 Tools menu, the description of the ORWT TOOLS MENU parameter to reflect 
 the changes.
 Resolution: Developers changed the description to reflect the changes to 
 this parameter.
  
         VBECS QO without a Start Date Is Rejected by VBECS with a Message 
 Sent to Provider (Remedy 379127, CQ 19097) - Previously, if a user 
 entered a VBECS quick order (QO) without a start date in CPRS, VBECS did 
 not accept the order. While investigating the order, developers 
 discovered that the start date and time was not being stored or passed to 
 VBECS correctly. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem and the start date will now 
 be stored and sent correctly. Based on the collection type, the start 
 date will have a default value, which the user can change if needed.
  
         VBECS: A Site Requested a Parameter that Removes Collection 
 Date/Time Defaults e.g., NOW (CQ 19167) - Previously, the providers 
 ordering blood were not paying attention to the date for collection time. 
 The providers would place the order and the default of NOW for the 
 collection time would be placed in the order.
 Resolution: CPRS developers created a new parameter OR VBECS REMOVE COLL 
 TIME to enable the sites to remove the Collection Time Default when 
 entering Diagnostic Test orders. The parameter has no affect on Quick 
 orders.  Quick order values will be displayed.
  
         VBECS Create a Parameter that Would Allow Sites to Change 
 Diagnostic Side with Blood Component Side (CQ 19266) - When the CPRS 
 Blood Components and Diagnostic Tests Order Form dialog, some sites asked 
 that the location on the dialog of the Blood Components panel and the 
 Diagnostic Tests panel be switched. However, other sites disagreed and 
 wanted them to remain as they were, with the Blood Components panel on 
 the left and the Diagnostic Tests panel on the left.
 Resolution: Developers created a new parameter, OR VBECS DIAGNOSTIC PANEL 
 1ST, to enable users to switch the location of the panels. This parameter 
 can be set at the Package, System, and Division levels. 
  
  
 Patient Record Flags
         Make Close Button on Patient Record Flags Dialog a Default Button 
 so that Enter Key Closes Dialog (Remedy 165177, CQ 15925) 
 Resolution: Developers made the Close button the default. When a user 
 selects Enter, the dialog should close.
  
 Patient Selection
         Team List, Source Combination Option (Remedy 71063, CQ 15902) - 
 Previously, if users were creating teams using source combinations and 
 the clinic names were formatted by site name, hyphen, and then clinic 
 name (e.g., SL-Cardio), the clinic name displayed only the site name 
 (SL). If all the clinics were formatted the same way, it was impossible 
 to tell which clinics had been selected. The problem was that CPRS was 
 treating the hyphen (-) as a delimiter, a character that tells CPRS that 
 one item is complete.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to not treat the hyphen as a 
 delimiter. The complete clinic name should now display.
  
         Patient Selection Screen Does Not Maintain Column Widths between 
 Patients (CQ 16671) - Previously, if the user adjusted the width of the 
 Notifications columns, CPRS did not keep the widths as the user set them 
 when the user selected a new patient.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem, and CPRS saves the widths 
 of the columns as the user sets them.
  
         Patient Selection Problem (Remedy 288256, CQ 18265) - Previously, 
 users experienced problems when using the "Creating a personal list" 
 option in CPRS. The users could no longer enter the patient's last name 
 and last four of the social security number to include the patient on a 
 list. Users were required to enter the first name, last name, and middle 
 initial as a work around. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem so that users can now enter 
 the patient's last name and the last four digits the patient's social 
 security number to include the patient on a personal list.
  
         CV Not Clearing in Patient Demographics When Changing Patient 
 List (CQ 18429) - Previously, when a user highlighted a patient name, the 
 associated information displayed on the Patient Selection 
 screen-including Combat Veteran status, if appropriate. If the user chose 
 to find a different name without opening the record and selected a 
 category, such as Ward, the Combat Veteran status continued to display 
 when it should not have.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the Combat Veteran 
 status now updates appropriately.
  
         Access Violation on Patient Selection (CQ 18540, 18544) - The 
 access violation occurred when the user double-clicked the Select New 
 Patient under File menu. The user should have just clicked once. In this 
 case, the second click activated the Patient Inquiry form, and then the 
 user was selecting select a new patient from that form. The same type of 
 problem occurred when the user double-clicked File | Review/Sign Changes..
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem by changing CPRS to 
 complete the patient selection process or Review/Sign Changes. process 
 before the patient inquiry can be activated.
  
 Postings
         Postings Dialog Freezes Sporadically (CQ 19124) - Previously, 
 when a user double-clicked on a posting or in the posting section, the 
 dialog sporadically would freeze and not allow the user to close or 
 interact with it.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
 Primary Care Button
         NSR 20090621: Modify the CPRS Primary Care Button to Display the 
 Associate Provider (CQ 18551) 
 Resolution: Developers added the ability to display the associate 
 provider on the Primary Care Team button.
  
  
 Printing
         Printing Generic Orders with Several Lines of Text Truncates 
 Lines That Exceed One Page in Length (Remedy 125784, 161946, CQ 15850, 
 15924) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem and CPRS will print the 
 header and additional text correctly.
  
         There Is No Indication in the Print Setup Menu Option (Remedy 
 69698, CQ 15926) - If the user went to File | Print and tried to set a 
 default printer, the default printer was not saved correctly. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem, and the user can now set a 
 default printer from the File | Print and Print Setup menu items. Also, 
 developers added a feature to CPRS that enables CPRS to remember the last 
 printer you selected. Because CPRS remembers the printer, a user can 
 print to a specific printer during the same session without having to 
 constantly reselect the printer.
  
         Garbled Printout of Multi-Line Sigs on Clinical Reports (Remedy 
 144336, CQ 15943) - Previously, Pharmacy Objects under "Clinical Reports" 
 (Active Outpatient/All Outpatient) do not print the "Sig" column 
 correctly. The output appeared to be scrambled.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem and the output should 
 display correctly.
  
         GUI Print DS Chart Copy (Remedy 69315, CQ 19030) - Previously, 
 the site was able to print discharge summary Work Copies but not Chart 
 Copies. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and sites should be able to 
 print Chart Copies also.
  
  
 Problem List
         Duplicate Problems: Need to Check for Duplicates Based on ICD9 
 Code (Remedy 192229, CQ 15928) - Previously, CPRS did not check if 
 problems were duplicates based on ICD-9 codes. Thus, two problems with 
 the same ICD-9 code could be on the Problem List.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         Unclear Error Message When Invalid Onset Dates Entered on Problem 
 Tab (Remedy 69997, CQ 16123) - Previously, when the user entered an 
 invalidly formatted date for the Onset date on the Problems tab, CPRS 
 displayed an error message, but some date formats on the error message 
 were incorrect.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the date formats in the error message.
  
         Comments Not Showing under Remove Problem (Remedy 327569 - 6, CQ 
 19031) - If a user tried to remove a problem, the problem comment was not 
 displaying in the remove dialog.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the comment now 
 displays appropriately.
  
  
 Procedures
         Can't Specify Chemo Drug Quantity on Procedure Tab (Remedy 
 123780, CQ 15837) - Previously, users could not enter a high chemotherapy 
 drug quantity on the Encounter Form's Procedure tab. 
 Resolution: Developers changed the limit on the Quantity field from 100 
 to 999 match the maximum value in PCE (Patient Care Encounter).
  
 Provider Selection
         Access Violation in Provider Selection (Remedy 321169, CQ 18472) 
 - Users found that when using the keyboard's down arrow to select a 
 provider, CPRS gave an access violation.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
  
 Radiology or Imaging
         Contract Source Entered in Imaging Order Dialog Does Not Match 
 Source Displayed in the Order Details (CQ 19236) - Developers found that 
 CPRS was not using the correct identifier for the sources.
 Resolution: Developers changed the CPRS remote procedure call (RPC) to 
 use the correct identifier or internal entry number (IEN). The source 
 should now display correctly.
  
  
 Reminders
         Can Enter PCE Data for a Future Date through Reminder Dialogs 
 (Remedy 70591, CQ 11703, 15941) - Previously, although CPRS does not 
 normally allow a user to enter encounter information for a future 
 appointment, the user could enter future Patient Care Encounter (PCE) 
 information for a future appointment. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem, and users should no longer 
 be able to enter PCE information for a future appointment through a 
 reminder dialog, a TIU template with a reminder dialog, nor a TIU 
 template with a reminder dialog attached to a note title.
  
         Reminder Dialog Doesn't Remember the Size of the Resolution 
 Window Anymore (Remedy 70423, CQ 15936) - There was problem with the 
 splitter bars not staying where the user set them. They would return to 
 the default location-particularly with the Resolution window.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem: The splitter bars will stay 
 where the user sets them.
  
         When Used in a Reminder Dialog, Template Field Default Values Do 
 Not "Stick" (Remedy 119166, CQ 15960) - Previously, if the user was 
 working on a reminder dialog and there were template fields, the default 
 values in the fields were not being placed into the note. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         User Loses Work when a Reminder Dialog Is Cancelled...No Warning 
 Is Displayed (Remedy 233376, CQ 16341, 18395) - Previously, if a user was 
 entering information in a reminder dialog and pressed the Cancel button, 
 the dialog closed without warning the user that the information was going 
 to be lost. 
 Resolution: Developers added a warning that the information already 
 entered in the reminder dialog will be lost if the user cancels out of 
 the dialog.
  
         User Switches Patient while Reminder Dialog Is Open, Data from 
 Previous Patient Used for Branching Logic (CQ 17665) - Previously, if a 
 user changed patients while a reminder dialog with branching logic was 
 open, the information was not cleared and reevaluated for the new patient 
 so that the appropriate prompts displayed. Branching logic means that if 
 the patient has a specified characteristic, one set of prompts display, 
 but if the patient does not have the characteristic, then different 
 prompts display.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem. If the user switches 
 patients with the a reminder dialog with branching logic open, the dialog 
 now clears the information and correctly evaluates the reminder for the 
 selected patient.
  
         Losing Reminder Buttons (Remedy 270817, CQ 17773) - Previously, 
 users could cover the Finish button by pulling the grey form over those 
 buttons at the bottom of the form (Cancel, Visit Date, Finish, etc.).
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. The user can no longer 
 cover the buttons.
  
         Reminder Window Displays Behind Main Window (Remedy 279998, 
 285859, 291824, CQ 17875) - When working with the Mental Health .dll 
 (dynamic link library), the dialog occasionally displayed behind the main 
 CPRS window and the user could not access the dialog.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. 
  
         Available Reminder Dialog:  Click on "+" to Expand Folder, Focus 
 Goes to the Top, User Must Scroll Down (CQ 17940) - Previously, in the 
 Available Reminders dialog, if the user clicked on the "+" to expand the 
 folder, the list returned back to the top, forcing the user to scroll 
 back down to see the expanded list.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem with the mouse click moving 
 the form back to the top, but there is still a visual problem with using 
 the keyboard click. However, the screen reader reads the correct data 
 because the focus is at the correct location.
  
         MH Test Not Clearing Out when Pressing Cancel Button in a 
 Reminder Dialog Template (CQ 18395) - Previously, if a user entered 
 answers for a mental health test in a reminder dialog that had a TIU 
 template, but the user then press the Cancel button, the information was 
 not cleared. If a mental health test was then opened again, the entered 
 information was still there.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. The data now clears 
 correctly when the user presses the Cancel button.
  
         Tilde in Reminder Dialog Objects Causes Subsequent Text to Be 
 Truncated (Remedy 374851, CQ 19117) - Previously, Reminder dialogs did 
 not appropriately handle TIU objects that contained Pharmacy Orderable 
 Items with the tilde character (~). The Reminder dialog would not shows 
 the tilde nor the text that followed the tilde.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS so that Reminders dialog objects will 
 now handle tildes and the text that follows appropriately.
  
  
 Remote Data
         Only the Remote Data Button Turns Blue when Remote Data Is 
 Available, Not the VistaWeb Button (Remedy 275969, CQ 17584) - 
 Previously, when the patient had remote data, the Remote Data button 
 would change color as an indicator to the user that the remote data was 
 available. The VistaWeb button did not change color even if there was 
 remote data. 
 Resolution: Developers change CPRS so that the VistaWeb button also 
 changes color when remote data is available. It also displays as being 
 selected when the user selects VistaWeb to view remote data. It displays 
 as depressed until a new patient is selected.
  
  
 Reports
         Anatomic Path Reports Disappearing (Remedy 308138, 301412, CQ 
 18267, 18268) - Previously, if a user were viewing information on the 
 Labs and Reports tabs, CPRS could get confused and not clear variables as 
 it should. The result was that information might not be displayed or 
 information from the previous tab might be displayed. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. As the user switches 
 between the Labs and Reports tabs, CPRS clears the appropriate variables 
 and the correct information is displayed. 
 Note:   This item is duplicated under the Labs heading because it affects 
 both tabs.
  
         Sometimes AP Alerts Do Not Display in VistA CPRS Scroll/Roll (CQ 
 18682) - Previously, some anatomic pathology (AP) alerts were not 
 displaying in the CPRS VistA roll and scroll character-based interface. 
 Resolution: Developers changed how CPRS looks for the appropriate lab 
 data to make it more accurate.
  
  
 Set Up
         Site Was Able to Assign 2 Items to the Same Sequence in a Dialog 
 Group (Remedy 374911, CQ 19143) 
 Resolution: Developers added a check so that two items cannot be assigned 
 the same sequence number.
  
 Spell Check
         Spell Checker Aborts if Note Starts with 2 or More Blank Lines 
 (Remedy 70255, CQ 15244, 15822) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         Alt-Tab Can Hide Spell Check Window behind CPRS, Making It Appear 
 That CPRS Has Locked Up (Remedy 70492, CQ 15823) - Previously, when a 
 user was spell checking a note and then used Alt-Tab to select another 
 application, it could cause problems with CPRS. When the user returned to 
 CPRS, the spell check window was behind CPRS and it appeared that CPRS 
 was locked.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem by changing CPRS to keep the 
 spell check window in front of CPRS.
  
         Spell Checking Options, such as Ignore Uppercase, Not Retained 
 from Spell Check to Spell Check (Remedy 132780, CQ 15824)  
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to store the spell checking options.
  
         Access Violation after Using Spell Checker (Remedy 145863, CQ 
 15825) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         When Returning from Spell Checker, a List Out of Bound Error 
 Occurs (Remedy 71028, CQ 15859, 11664) - When the user has been using the 
 spell checker and  returned to CPRS, CPRS experiences a list out of bound 
 error, followed by CPRS locking up. This list out of bounds error was 
 caused by the spell checker taking more time that the broker timeout. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         Spell Check: When 1st Line of Text Is ******* Spell Check Will 
 Not Work (Remedy 187352, CQ 16248) - Previously, if a line in a progress 
 note contained only special characters, such as asterisks, the spell 
 checker did not work correctly.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem.
  
         Spell Check: Spell Check Window Hidden behind Current CPRS Window 
 (Remedy 320202, CQ 18319) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. In CPRS GUI v.28, the 
 spell check was redesigned.
  
 Templates
         Mouse Wheel Doesn't Work in Template Dialogs (Remedy 71293, CQ 
 15952) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. The mouse wheel should now 
 work in both template and reminder dialogs.
  
         Template Editor: OK, Cancel and Apply Buttons Can Be Partially 
 Blocked (Remedy 279399, CQ 18274, 18598) - Previously, the user could 
 move the different panels and panes on the Template Editor dialog and 
 cover up some controls. 
 Resolution: Developers put controls in place so that the user cannot move 
 the various items on the dialog to cover up the controls. 
  
  
 Time Out
         When CPRS Is Timing Out There Is No Immediate Way to Close CPRS 
 (Remedy 69106, CQ 15961) - Previously, when the CPRS Time Out dialog 
 displayed and began counting down the time to close CPRS, there was no 
 way to immediately close CPRS from the dialog. Also, if some other 
 application was open and active, the CPRS Time Out dialog would not 
 display on top of the other applications.
 Resolution: Developers corrected both problems. Developers added a Close 
 CPRS button to the CPRS Timeout dialog, and the dialog will now display 
 on top of other applications if they are active.
  
         If CPRS Timeout Is Set to 0, It Counts Negative Numbers (CQ 
 17558) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected these problems. If set to zero, CPRS 
 closes after the appropriate time without any user interaction.
  
         CPRS Time Out Warning Message Pulls the User into Session Being 
 Timed Out (Remedy 276342, CQ 17595) - This problem occurred in CPRS GUI 
 v.27 when the user had several CPRS sessions open at one time and the 
 session that was not currently active timed out. For example, if the 
 provider was placing orders in the record of Patient C when the timeout 
 occurred on Patient A, Patient A's record became active and the provider 
 did not notice-meaning the provider could enter orders in the incorrect 
 chart.  
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS so that when one session of multiple 
 sessions that are opened is about to close, CPRS pulls the user into that 
 session so that the dialog can warn the user by identifying which session 
 is about to close, count down, if a countdown is set up, and close the 
 session. The dialog now displays for the user which patient's chart 
 (session) is about to close.
  
  
 TIU (Text Integration Utilities)
         When Changing Note Title to a Title without a Template or 
 Boilerplate (Remedy 218011, CQ 15855) - Previously, when the user changed 
 the note title to a title without a template or boilerplate, CPRS 
 displayed a dialog to ask the user whether the text that the user had put 
 in the first note should be placed in the new title's note. The dialog 
 presented three items: 
 o       Ignore the boilerplate text (text of note will not change).
 o       Append the boilerplate text to the text of the note.
 o       Replace the text in the note with the boilerplate text.
 The options did not make clear what the user should do to retain the 
 text. The request was to change the default response to better avoid 
 losing text.
 Resolution: Developers simplified this dialog. Now, it asks if the user 
 wants to clear the existing note text and has a Yes and No button with 
 the default being No. If the user selects a new note title and presses 
 <Enter> in the dialog, CPRS retains the text in the new title's note. 
  
         When Writing a New Note with a Linked Template Dialog Boilerplate 
 an Access Violation Occurs (Remedy 69674, CQ 15860) - When a user was 
 writing a new note that had a linked template dialog boilerplate and CPRS 
 timed out, an access violation occurred, and all references to the note 
 were lost. There was no record of a note even having been started on 
 patient.
 Resolution: There will no longer be an access violation when a template 
 dialog is open and CPRS times out.  Any open template dialog will be 
 canceled (losing any entries made in the dialog), but all existing text 
 in the note will be retained. 
 Note:   However, if a user is entering a new note but the note contains 
 no text, and a timeout occurs, the note will be deleted because it is 
 empty. This is normal CPRS behavior for empty notes on time out.
  
         Assigning a Default Cosigner when There Are Large User IENs 
 Causes Range Check Errors (Remedy 70088, CQ 15901) - Previously, when the 
 user was assigning a default cosigner and the system had large internal 
 entry numbers (IENs), a number CPRS user to identify users, range check 
 errors could occur.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem.
  
         Unable to Edit Notes after Pasting in Large Amounts of Text 
 (Remedy 71058, CQ 16226) - Previously, if a user pasted a large amount of 
 text into a note, the user was unable to edit the note. The only thing 
 the user could do was to backspace out text and then to replace it with 
 only the same amount of text that they took out.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to allow editing text after pasting 
 in large amounts of text.
  
         Undo Not Working (Remedy 70341, CQ 18262) - Users noted that 
 after pasting text into a note, the Undo feature was not working. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. After pasting text into a 
 note, the user can remove the pasted text immediately after pasting by 
 selecting Edit | Undo or using the keyboard combination CRTL + Z. If the 
 user types text, Undo will remove the text. The Undo feature only works 
 once and then it switches to be a Redo (under Edit | Redo). Developers 
 also added the CTRL+Y keyboard combination for Redo.
  
         Text Wraps Using Templates (Remedy 304116, CQ 18263) - 
 Previously, the text in templates was not wrapping correctly especially 
 when the text went down far enough to create the need for a scroll bar. 
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to adjust for the text when a scroll 
 bar displayed. This should correct the wrapping problem.
  
         TIU Word Processing Template Field TRUNCATION (Remedy 275552, CQ 
 18266)
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. The field no longer 
 truncates as did.
  
         Search for Text in Notes Tab (Remedy 242455, CQ 18269) - When the 
 user was searching through notes, the feature worked fine. But, after 
 doing a search, when attempting to do something else on the notes tab, 
 the search would be done again-causing an annoyance to the user.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem so that the search 
 terminates correctly.
  
         Display on Pop Up Dialog for "Search for text (within current 
 View)" Wrong; Display Says: "List Signed Notes by Author" (Remedy 278651, 
 CQ 18270) - Previously, when the user selected the menu item "Search for 
 text (within Current View)", the heading on the dialog that displayed 
 incorrectly read, "List Signed Notes by Author". 
 Resolution: Developers corrected the dialog label, which now correctly 
 reads, "Search for text (within current View)".
  
         Identifying Co-Signer Requires Double Click Instead of Single and 
 Does Not Refresh (CQ 19451) - Previously, there was a problem where users 
 had to double-click to move a name to the list of additional cosigners. 
 Then, there was also a problem in that the list did not appropriately 
 refresh.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to move a name with a single click 
 and the list now refreshes correctly. 
  
  
 Tools Menu
         Add Submenus to the Tools Menu (Remedy 162367, CQ 15848, 15962) 
 Resolution: Developers added the ability to add submenus to the Tools 
 menu and expanded the number of possible items to 99, including dividing 
 lines.
  
  
 VBECS (VistA Blood Establishment Computer System)
         VBECS:  Expired Orders That Are Not Associated with a Specimen 
 (CQ 16257) - Previously, CPRS was not accepting a change of status for 
 expired orders.
 Resolution: CPRS will now accept the update to the expired order status.
  
         VBECS: Reason for Request Does Not Auto-Fill on Order Dialog with 
 Surgery QO (CQ 18037) - Previously, sites reported that the Reason for 
 Request field does not auto fill on the order dialog with Surgery entry 
 from quick orders (QO). 
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS so that when a quick order defines 
 the urgency of PRE-OP and a surgery, CPRS puts the surgery in the Reason 
 for Request field just as if the user selected it from the dialog.
  
         VBECS: Surgical QO MSBOS Alert Does Not Occur when #Units Are 
 Exceeded (CQ 18039, 18040, 18041) - Previously, when a user placed a 
 quick order for blood components for a surgery and the quantity exceeded 
 the Maximum Surgical Blood Order Schedule (MSBOS) configuration in VBECS, 
 the MSBOS alert did not occur. The alert also did not occur when a Type 
 and Screen quick order was placed and then the user added blood 
 components to the order.
 Resolution: Developers corrected a problem where the logic to check the 
 MSBOS was not occurring. The check is now occurring as it should.
  
         VBECS: Some Components Require T&S even though VBECS Has Been 
 Configured Not to Require T&S (CQ 18443) - Previously, CPRS was 
 incorrectly requiring some blood components, such as fresh frozen plasma 
 or platelets, to have a T & S (type and screen) even though the 
 configuration did not call for it. The check in CPRS for whether a blood 
 component required a type and screen was not working correctly. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the check for a type 
 and screen should function correctly.
  
         VBECS: Stat Urgency Changed to Routine when Selecting T&S (CQ 
 18747) - In the Blood Bank order dialog, sites reported that when 
 selecting STAT for component when ordering the T&S, urgency changes to 
 Routine. The problem was that CPRS was recalculating the urgency every 
 time the user selected a new component or test. 
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to retain the urgency the user 
 originally entered.
  
         VBECS: QO Heading Displays "9^ROUTINE" (CQ 18784) - Previously, 
 when the user selected a quick order, the dialog heading displayed, 
 "9^ROUTINE". 
 Resolution: CPRS developers corrected this problem. With quick orders, 
 the dialog's heading should read, "Blood Components and Diagnostic Test 
 Order Form".
  
         VBECS: QO with Collection Date T+14 Displays "Today" in Dialog 
 (CQ 18791) - Previously, sites could create quick orders with the 
 collection date as t+14 (14 days or two weeks in the future), but the 
 Blood Components and Diagnostic Tests Order Form dialog displays "today" 
 as the collection date.  The order detail displays the correct collection 
 date as t+14.
 Resolution: Developers found problems with a predefined Collection Time 
 not being displayed correctly for Lab Collection types of Ward Collect 
 and Send Patient.  Developers corrected this problem and fixed a problem 
 with Collection Type/Time issues when editing quick orders. The correct 
 predefined date now displays.
  
         VBECS: QO in CPRS Defaults to CT Ward Collect for All Locations 
 (Remedy 358702, CQ 18794) - Previously, sites discovered problems with 
 how the Collection Type was coming through with quick orders. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected several problems with how the Collection 
 Type was being used. It now functions correctly.
  
         VBECS: Ordering the Diagnostic Test after the Urgency Changes 
 Urgency to Routine (CQ 18841) - When a user ordered a component and 
 selected an urgency and then selected a type and screen, the urgency was 
 incorrectly changed to Routine.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the selected urgency 
 will be retained.
  
         VBECS: Reason for Request and Comments Not Sent to VBECS 
 Consistently (Remedy 366886, CQ 18873)  - Previously, CPRS was 
 inconsistent sending a reason for request and comments to VBECS for 
 diagnostic tests. 
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to selectively add/remove the 
 required flag (*) from fields based on what the user selected. The Reason 
 for Request is not required for diagnostic tests, so this change should 
 help clarify to the user when a particular field is required.
  
  
         VBECS: Write a BB Order then Go to Change Order Containing Type 
 and Screen, Another T&S Is Requested (CQ 18888) - Previously, if a user 
 tried to change an unreleased Blood Bank (VBECS) order that already 
 included a type and screen, CPRS incorrectly displayed the message that a 
 type and screen was required.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to look at the content of the 
 unreleased order and if a type and screen as included in the unreleased 
 order, CPRS does not prompt for another, unnecessary type and screen.
  
         VBECS: Sending CPRS Active T&S with No Component from MSBOS 
 Setting in VBECS (CQ 19070) - Previously, there was a problem with 
 communication between CPRS and VBECS. When the user selected blood 
 components and selected a surgery that did not require blood components 
 according to the Maximum Surgical Blood Order Schedule (MSBOS) as the 
 reason for request, CPRS was then informing the user that a Type and 
 Screen was needed.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this behavior. If the user selects a 
 surgery that does not require blood components according to the MSBOS, 
 CPRS now displays a dialog warning the user that no blood is required. 
 CPRS also displays a label on the Blood Components and Diagnostic Test 
 Order Form dialog.
  
         VBECS Future Orders: None of the RBC Orders Crossed to VBECS 
 (Remedy 382825, 383708, 408643, 416671, CQ 19139, 19259) - Previously, 
 some VBECS future orders were being cancelled because an incorrect lab 
 specimen (Type and Screen) was associated with the order. The problem 
 occurred because future orders were associated with an existing specimen 
 that would expire in a few days instead of being associated with a Type 
 and Screen that the user entered for the future blood product. After the 
 existing specimen expired, the future order was cancelled because the 
 associated Type and Screen's specimen had expired.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to compare the date wanted and the 
 specimen expiration date to ensure that the order will be tied to the 
 correct specimen. 
  
         VBECS: Keeping Date/Time Wanted, Collection Type, and Collection 
 Date/Time Active (CQ 19168) - During testing, sites reported that 
 clinicians found it confusing that they had to select an item in 
 "shopping cart" or Selected Components and Tests area to modify the 
 item's characteristics using the display above it confusing. The sites 
 suggested that keeping the Date/Time Wanted, Collection Type, and 
 Collection Date/Time active would allow them to directly select the item 
 above. 
 Resolution: CPRS developers took the advice of the sites and changed the 
 Blood Components and Diagnostic Test Order Form dialog so that those 
 items that apply to all components or diagnostic tests continue to 
 display as the user edits the order. Also, the last item that a user 
 edited in an area will display when the user puts the focus in that area 
 either by tabbing into or clicking in that area. To edit a different 
 item, the user must still select the item under the Selected Components 
 and Tests area. 
  
         VBECS: QO for Immediate Collect No Ellipsis (Date/Time) Button 
 Available to Select Date/Time Collection (Remedy 389479, CQ 19202) - 
 Previously, when clinicians were placing orders, they wanted to set the 
 time a few minutes in the future, but they could not see the ellipsis 
 button.
 Resolution: Developers found that the ellipsis button was inadvertently 
 covered on the dialog and not functioning correctly. Developers corrected 
 the problem and the ellipsis button is now functioning correctly.
  
         Blood Bank Reason for Request Requires Rolling the Mouse over 
 Reasons Several Times (CQ 19224) - Previously, the only way to see a long 
 reason for request on the Blood Components and Diagnostic Test Order Form 
 dialog was to move the mouse over the reason for request several times.
 Resolution: Developers altered the dialog slightly to make the Reason for 
 Request field longer so that the reason can be seen without using a mouse 
 over hint. The user should now be able to see the reason for request.
  
         VBECS: Font Size Equal to or Greater Than 10 in the VBECS Order 
 Dialog Causes Display Problem with Diagnostic Test Panel (CQ 19268)  - 
 The Diagnostic Test Panel at the top of the Blood Bank Order Dialog would 
 only partially show when changing the font size to something above 8.  
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem. 
  
         VBECS QO with PLT, FFP, or CRYO that Do Not Require a T&S when 
 Place Will Require a T&S (CQ 19306) - Previously, when a user created a 
 quick order for platelets, plasma, or cryoprecipitate that did not 
 require a Type and Screen, CPRS did show the warning that the Type and 
 Screen was required when the order was placed.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to not require the test when it was 
 not necessary.
  
         VBECS Duplicate T&S Order Warning Message Does Not Work with a 
 Manual T&S Order (CQ 19312) - Previously, when a user was placing a quick 
 order (QO) that created a duplicate Type and Screen order, CPRS gave the 
 warning, but if the user placed the order manually from the Blood 
 Component and Diagnostic Test Order Form dialog, the user did not get the 
 warning message.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the warning should 
 display at the correct times.
  
         VBECS Surgery Entry in All Uppercase Does Not Trigger Warning (CQ 
 19325) - Previously, if a user created a quick order with a reason for 
 request for a specific surgery that used different capitalization than 
 the same surgery entered in the VBECS, such as NEPHRECTOMY instead of 
 Nephrectomy, the Maximum Surgical Blood Order Schedule (MSBOS) warning 
 did not display as it should.
 Resolution: CPRS developers made sure that CPRS is now checking for the 
 surgery regardless of capitalization so that the MSBOS warning will 
 display correctly.
  
         VBECS Generic BB Opens with Scroll Bar at the Bottom of Screen 
 (CQ 19342) - A test site reported that a user opened the Blood Component 
 and Diagnostic Test Order Form dialog and saw a scroll bar across  the 
 bottom of the dialog. This occurred when the user had the Windows Classic 
 appearance setting instead of the Windows XP setting. 
 Resolution: Developers made a change to support the Windows Classic 
 setting also.
  
 508 Changes
         508: Problems Tab - View Menu - Return to Default View - JAWS (CQ 
 4700) - Previously, if a user returned to the default view by selecting 
 View | Return to Default View, JAWS did not speak anything to tell the 
 user that CPRS had returned to the default view.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. When the user selects View 
 | Return to Default View and JAWS is running, JAWS will say, "Returning 
 to default view".
  
         508: Problems Tab - JAWS (CQ 4709) - Previously, after the user 
 went to the Problems tab in CPRS, the first time the user tabbed JAWS did 
 not speak anything.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS and the extra tab no longer exists.
  
         508: No Default Rad Btn on Patient Selection Screen Doesn't Read 
 in JAWS (CQ 4716) - Previously, the No Default radio button in the 
 Patient List group box on the Patient Selection screen did not read in 
 JAWS when it was unavailable (greyed out). The user could get to all the 
 other radio buttons (2 of 7 through 7 of 7: Providers, Team/Personal, 
 Specialties, Clinics, Wards, and All), but they can't get to 1 of 7 (No 
 Default) and didn't know it was greyed out.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS so that JAWS now reads the No Default 
 radio button when it is disabled. When a user tabs into the Patient List 
 panel and a default patient list is not defined (the No Default radio 
 button is greyed out), JAWS now says the following: No Default radio 
 button unavailable 1 of 7. To move to the other patient list categories, 
 press Tab. Pressing tab will direct focus to the 'All' patient list 
 category. Then, JAWS reads the instructions that tell the user to press 
 the Up Arrow or Down Arrow to move between patient selection categories.
  
         508: Problem List Tab: Would Like to Press <Enter> Key Here to 
 Invoke "New Problem" (CQ 11529) - CPRS received a request from the field 
 to make the New Problem button the default selection after a user 
 selected the Problems tab.
 Resolution: Developers made the change. When the user selects the 
 Problems tab, the user can select the New Problem button by pressing 
 either the <Space Bar> or the <Enter> key. If the user refreshes the 
 patient data, CPRS keeps the focus wherever it was. When changing 
 patients, CPRS places the focus in a default position, not on the New 
 Problem button. 
  
         508: Combo Box Template Field Selections Can No Longer Be 
 Selected Using Keyboard Past First Character (Remedy 70272, CQ 11708, 
 15766, 15767) - Previously, users could not type more than one character 
 when attempting to select a template field. This problem meant that the 
 user had to scroll through the list to find the appropriate selection, 
 which could be very time-consuming.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem, and the user can now type 
 in more letters to quickly locate the appropriate selection.
  
         508: Difficulty Figuring Out How to Navigate to Enter Allergy on 
 the Cover Sheet (CQ 15508) - Previously, it was very difficult for 
 visually impaired users to know how to enter an allergy from the Cover 
 Sheet. 
 Resolution: Developers added instructions to the Allergies/Adverse 
 Reaction list box when CPRS detects that JAWS is running. The 
 instructions tell the user how enter an allergy.
  
         508: Allergy-Focus Never Goes to the Observed/Historical Radio 
 Buttons when Tabbing through the Allergy Entry Dialog (CQ 15509) - 
 Previously, if the user was using the keyboard to tab through the 
 controls in the Enter Allergy or Adverse Reaction dialog, tabbing skipped 
 the Observed and Historical radio buttons.
 Resolution: Developers added the radio buttons to the tab order. The user 
 can now tab to this control. 
  
         508:  Allergy-SR Does Not Read or Focus on Un-editable Fields in 
 Allergy Entry Dialog (CQ 15510, 18654) - Previously, the screen reader 
 did not read two fields on the Enter Allergy or Adverse Reaction dialog: 
 the Originator and Origination Date. It did not read these fields because 
 the user cannot edit these fields.
 Resolution: Developers made a change so that the screen reader will now 
 read these fields.
  
         508: Allergy-Blank Lines after the  Top Ten S/S Are Confusing 
 Using JAWS (CQ 15511) - Previously, when a visually impaired user in the 
 Enter Allergy or Adverse Reaction dialog moved down through the Signs and 
 Symptoms (S/S) list, a blank line after the first ten items confused the 
 user because there was no indication of what was happening.
 Resolution: Developers changed the Signs and Symptoms list so that when 
 JAWS is working, CPRS puts a line of dashes with an explanation instead 
 of a blank line. This should help indicate to the visually impaired user 
 that there are more items below.
  
         508: Allergy-Comment Does Not Read when Tabbing through the 
 Allergy Entry Dialog (CQ 15512)
 Resolution: Developers changed the Enter Allergy or Adverse Reaction 
 dialog so that the screen reader begins speaking the comment as soon as 
 the user tabs into the Comments field. 
  
         508: Allergy-Allergy Selected in the Lookup Dialog Reads as Not 
 Selected in the Detail Dialog (CQ 15513) - Previously, after the user 
 selected the reactant that caused an allergy or adverse reaction and then 
 went to the Enter Allergy or Adverse Reaction dialog, the reactant was in 
 a field that the user could not edit. Because the user could not edit the 
 reactant, JAWS did not read it. 
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS so that JAWS now reads the field and 
 the reactant, and then states that it is read-only.
  
         508: Allergy-The Word "Symptoms" Is Read as "Ymptoms" (CQ 15515)
 Resolution: Developers corrected this. It now reads as "symptoms".
  
         508: Allergy-On the Cover Sheet, Focus Returns to Active Problem 
 List after an Allergy Entry (CQ 15516) - When a user enters an allergy or 
 views a detailed display of the allergy from  the CPRS Cover Sheet and 
 then closes the dialog, the focus goes to the Active Problems pane 
 instead of the Allergies/Adverse Reactions pane. 
 Resolution: Because users can enter allergies from several locations in 
 CPRS, focus cannot be returned from that dialog to the Allergies/Adverse 
 Reactions section of the Cover Sheet. However, developers did change CPRS 
 so that from the allergy detailed display, the focus will return to the 
 Allergies/Adverse Reactions section of the Cover Sheet.
  
         508: Allergy-In Reactant Lookup Match List when  No Matches Were 
 Found , "Grayed X Explanation" Is Read (CQ 15517) - Previously, in the 
 Reactant Lookup Match list after a search, the screen reader read, 
 "Grayed X Explanation". The reason for this was that the search did not 
 produce results in some categories, and CPRS displayed an X in front of 
 the category. What the screen reader read was not clear. 
 Resolution: Developers changed the screen reader label. It now says, "No 
 matches."
  
         508:  Allergy-S/S Selection Keystroke Needs Better Instruction 
 (CQ 15518) - A user suggested that the instructions when the user is in 
 the Signs and Symptoms list could be improved. It previously said, "Press 
 Enter to set the value".
 Resolution: Developers changed the label and it now speaks, ""Press Enter 
 to select the sign/symptom".
  
         508: Allergy-If the User Hits Escape during Entry of the Allergy, 
 the Allergy Is Abruptly Ended (CQ 15519) - If the user was entering an 
 allergy and pressed <ESC>, then the entry was terminated without warning. 
 Resolution: Developers added a dialog that will display and ask the user 
 to confirm that the user wants to cancel the allergy entry.
  
         508: Allergy-The Severity Level Button Is Only Identified as "? 
 Button" (CQ 15520) 
 Resolution: Developers labeled the button as "Security level descriptions 
 button".
  
         508: Problems Tab (CQ 15531) - Upon reviewing the Problems tab 
 with a visually impaired user, several problems regarding navigation and 
 access by a visually challenged user were identified:
 o       Although not visible to a sighted user, there was a control that 
 did not speak its location or purpose when JAWS was running-making it 
 impossible for the JAWS user to know where focus was in the dialog or 
 what to do next.
 Resolution: Developers removed the hidden control and set CPRS to not tab 
 to that location.
 o       If the user selected or highlighted a problem, it was set as a 
 description and was not cleared. Because the description was not properly 
 cleared, the description could stay when the user changed to another 
 patient.
 Resolution: Developers made sure CPRS properly clears the description so 
 it will not persist between patients.
 o       When a user added or edited a problem and tabbed past the Date of 
 Onset button, the focus shifted to a location hidden underneath the 
 dialog, where JAWS read the last selected/added problem or the first 
 problem in the list (if not selected/just added). 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem by not allowing the other 
 control to receive focus and subsequently be read by JAWS.
 o       The tab order when on the Add/Edit dialog was confusing, and the 
 user could Shift + Tab off the form, but not back onto the form. The user 
 could Tab back onto the form, but not using Shift + Tab.
 Resolution: Developers corrected the tab order and the Shift + Tab issue.
  
 In addition, while working on these problems, developers identified and 
 corrected two other problems on the Problems tab.
 o       When a user edited a selected problem (Action menu | Change), 
 after leaving the menu, JAWS read the last selected or first problem in 
 the list when it was hidden and underneath the Edit Problem form. This 
 might or might not have been the problem being edited. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem by resetting the focus so 
 that JAWS no longer reads the underlying problem.
 o       When the user moved to the Cancel button, JAWS was reading the 
 button twice. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this and JAWS will only speak Cancel 
 once.
  
         Patient Selection Form Does Not Move or Resize Using Keyboard 
 Commands (CQ 15963) - Previously, the user could not move or resize the 
 Patient Selection form using the keyboard only (such as Alt + m and then 
 the arrow keys to move the dialog). 
 Resolution: CPRS developers corrected this problem, and user can now use 
 the keyboard only to move and resize the form.
  
         508:  Order Sets:  Order Sets Are Difficult to Use (part 2)--Make 
 the Allergies New Allergies Dialog Non-Modal (CQ 17765) - Previously, 
 because some dialogs were modal-meaning the user could not move from one 
 dialog to another, it was difficult for visually impaired users to know 
 what it happening. With order sets, the visually impaired users did not 
 know what the order set contained or that they could stop the order set 
 using a button on the dialog. This inability to move between dialogs in 
 the same application (modal dialogs require a response before the user 
 can go to another dialog) also influenced how visually impaired users 
 could use allergies dialogs.
 Resolution: Developers changed the dialogs in Order Sets to be non-modal. 
 So, when JAWS is running on the workstation and the user chooses an order 
 set, CPRS displays a new dialog that informs the user about the order 
 sets: what orders are included, an OK button to begin the order set, and 
 instructions on how to move to the Order Set dialog and stop the order 
 set in progress using keyboard commands.
  
         508: Order Sets: Order Sets Are Difficult to Use (part 3) -- Have 
 the Screen Reader Read Auto-Accept QO (CQ 17766) - When using the menus 
 created with order sets, individuals using the JAWS screen reader were 
 only read the label on an item and then the screen reader began reading 
 the first dialog in the order set.
 Resolution: Developers added some text to CPRS so that when JAWS is 
 reading an order set, it will now say, "Auto-Accept Quick Order name of 
 the quick order placed." Then, it will read the rest of items in the 
 order set.
  
         508: Order Sets: Order Sets Are Difficult to Use (part 4) Have 
 the Order Set Dialog Pop Up a Message When Running SR (CQ 17767) 
 Resolution: As directed, developers made the Order Set dialog bring up a 
 message when an order set is running a screen reader (SR).
  
         JAWS Only Reads Visible Text in Interaction Selection Dropdown on 
 Monograph Dialog (CQ 19017) 
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS so that JAWS will read the entire 
 item.
  
         JAWS Reads Panel1 before Label on PRF Dialog (CQ 19163) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and JAWS now reads 
 appropriately.
  
         JAWS Reads Category I as "Category Eye" (CQ 19164) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected the problem and it now read "Category 
 One".
  
         508: Adjust Tab Order on PRF Dialog (CQ 19165) - For a keyboard 
 only user, the tab order for the Patient Record Flag dialog changed from 
 CPRS v.27.n to v.28. 
 Resolution: CPRS developers changed the tab order for keyboard users back 
 to what it was in CPRS v.27.n: main text block, notes block, OK button, 
 Category I, Category II.
  
         JAWS Does Not Read Label for Note List Box on PRF Dialog (CQ 
 19166) 
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS to read the label on the Note list 
 box on the Patient Record Flag (PRF) dialog.
  
         508: Patient Selection Form 508 Issues (CQ 19336, 19412) - 
 Previously, on the Patient Selection screen, the screen reader did not 
 detect the demographic information for the patient that displays when a 
 patient name is highlighted. Also, the radio buttons under the Patient 
 List group did not read that group label. 
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS so that JAWS will now detect the 
 demographic information, such as the social security number, date of 
 birth, gender, service connection status, and location.
  
         Enter Allergy or Adverse Reaction Form - Causative Agent Edit Is 
 Partially Labeled (CQ 19337)
 Resolution: Developers corrected this, providing more information.
  
         Enter Allergy or Adverse Reaction Form - Nature of Reaction Combo 
 Box Is Partially Labeled (CQ 19338) 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and added to the label.
  
         Enter Allergy of Adverse Reaction Form:  Missing Edit Field Label 
 (CQ 19339) - Previously, when a user went in to the Allergy or Adverse 
 Reaction form, the Signs/Symptoms field did not speak the label correctly.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem, and the field should now 
 read correctly.
  
         Enter Allergy or Adverse Reaction Form:  Reaction Date/Time Edit 
 Field Not Labeled (CQ 19341)
 Resolution: Developers correctly labeled the Reaction Date/Time field.
  
         Enter Allergy or Adverse Reaction Form:  Issues with Calendar 
 Utility (CQ 19344) - Previously, the CPRS calendar control through which 
 a user would enter a date was not labeled correctly, which made it 
 difficult to enter a date.
 Resolution: Developers changed which control was used to enter a date. 
 JAWS can now read the labels and dates entered with the date box control.
  
         508:  Problem List Lexicon Search:  The Number of Search Results 
 Displayed on Screen Not Available to Screen Reader (CQ 19358) - After a 
 Lexicon search was performed,  there was text at the bottom right of this 
 form that gave a breakdown of the search results.  This text was not 
 available to the screen reader.
 Resolution: Developers placed the label displaying the search results in 
 the tab order when the screen reader is running.
  
         508:  Add Problem Form:  Tab Order Problem (CQ 19359) - 
 Previously, the tab order for this form did not seem to make sense. The 
 OK and Cancel buttons came in the tab order before the other fields to 
 enter a problem.
 Resolution: Developers changed the tab order to something more logical.
  
         Problems Form:  Tab Selects List Box Not Visible On Form (CQ 
 19361) - If a user tabbed through the form and tabbed past the Date of 
 Onset field but then shift + tabbed back, the focus would go to an 
 invisible combobox. 
 Resolution: Developers changed the tab order and the focus should no 
 longer go into the combobox.
  
         508: Orders / Write Delayed Orders Button / Release Orders Form - 
 Undetectable Text (CQ 19385) - Previously, when the user selected the 
 Write Delayed Order button on the Orders tab, CPRS displayed the Release 
 Order dialog, but the text at the top of the dialog was not available for 
 the screen reader. 
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. When the Release Order 
 dialog displays, the text at the top of the dialog can now be read when a 
 screen reader is running.
  
         508: Add New Orders Form - User Cannot Detect the Number to the 
 Left of the Orders (CQ 19386)
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem and the screen reader will 
 now read the number/prefix (Mnemonic) of the order.
  
         508: Order an Imaging Procedure Form - Reason for Study Label 
 Issue (CQ 19392) - The Reason for Study field label lacked explanation of 
 what the user should do.
 Resolution: Developers added to the label so it now reads, "Reason for 
 Study REQUIRED text 64 characters maximum length".
  
         508: Order an Imaging Procedure Form:  Submit To Field Not in Tab 
 Order (CQ 19393) - Previously, it appeared that the Submit To field was 
 not in the tab order. However, this field was a conditional field based 
 on what imaging procedure the user selected. It was not in the tab order 
 if it was not active.
 Resolution: Although this was functioning as it was designed, it made it 
 difficult for a visually challenged user to know that it was there unless 
 it was active. Developers therefore changed CPRS to have the screen 
 reader read that it was there even if it was not active.
  
         508: Order an Imaging Procedure Form:  Text Area Not in Tab Order 
 (CQ 19394) - Previously, the text area that shows the order text was not 
 in the tab order for keyboard users so they could not get to that 
 information. 
 Resolution: Developers placed the area in the text order.
  
         508:  Infusion Order Form Field Label Issues (CQ19397) - 
 Previously, several fields on this dialog were mislabeled: the Type (IV 
 Type Help) combo box, the Schedule (Day of Week) combo box, and the 
 Infusion Rate (ml/hr) combo box.
 Resolution: Developers corrected all the labels.
  
         508: Text Area Not in Tab Order on Various Forms (CQ 19400)
 Resolution: Developers put the area in the tab order on several forms.
  
         508: Order a Procedure: Combo Box Is Read-Only/User Focus Problem 
 (19401)
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS so that the "Service to perform this 
 procedure" field is now in the tab order and can be read by JAWS.
  
         508: Non-VA Medications Form:  Unlabeled Field (CQ 19402) - 
 Previously, the first field on the Non-VA Medications form was not 
 labeled.
 Resolution: Developers added a label to the Medication field and the 
 Order SIG field. Also, the developers added a tab stop for the Quick 
 Order field when the screen reader is active.
  
         508: Patient Care Order Form:  Combo Box Unlabeled (CQ 19403) 
 Resolution: Developers labeled the combo box appropriately.
  
         508: Activity Orders:  User Focus Problem (CQ 19404) - 
 Previously, if a user was working in this dialog, the screen reader did 
 not read the order text in the box.
 Resolution: Developers changed how CPRS deals with this order dialog 
 based on whether a screen reader is running. When CPRS detects a screen 
 reader, developers added the text order area to be tab order, labeled the 
 new field, and made it read only so that the screen reader can read it 
 and then tab out of the field.
  
         508: Non-Formulary Drug Request:  Edit Fields Label Issue (CQ 
 19405) 
 Resolution: Developers labeled the Order Sig and Admin Schedule fields in 
 the Medications dialog.
  
         508: Non-Formulary Drug Renewal:  Edit Fields Unlabeled (CQ 
 19406) - Previously, the screen reader did not read the Renew Orders or 
 the Change Refills for Outpatient Medication dialogs correctly. 
 Resolution: Developers changed how JAWS interacts with these dialogs. On 
 the Renew Orders dialog, the tab order was changed and now goes from 
 Change, OK, and Cancel. On the Change Refills for Outpatient Medication 
 dialog, developers made changes so that the text field at the top of the 
 dialog first receives focus so that the screen reader can read the order 
 text, then tabs to the Refills field, and then tabs to the Pick Up field 
 before returning to the text area that holds the order text.
  
         508: Provider & Location for Current Activities/New Visit Tab - 
 Date Field Label Missing (CQ 19433) 
 Resolution: Developers changed the label to display correctly.
  
         GUI Options Dialog Box is Not Resizable (CQ 19480) - Previously, 
 if a user changed the font size for CPRS, the Options dialog (Tools | 
 Options) did not resize appropriately and text or buttons could be cut 
 off.
 Resolution: Developers changed the dialog that it will resize when the 
 font size is changed.
  
         JAWS Does Not Read Text Box Correctly on Text Order Dialog (CQ 
 19519) - Previously, in the Text Order dialog, JAWS read the wrong label 
 for the Sig field if there was nothing in the Stop Date field. It read, 
 "Stop Date" when the user tabbed to the Sig field.
 Resolution: Developers corrected this problem. JAWS will correctly read 
 the labels and content for the fields.
  
         508: IV Order-Solutions and Additives Tabs Are Not in the Tab 
 Order (CQ 19531) - Previously, on the Infusion Order dialog, the 
 Solutions and Additives tabs were not in the tab order and therefore 
 could not be read by JAWS.
 Resolution: Developers placed the Solutions and Additives tabs in the tab 
 order.
  
         508: IV Order-Asterisks Not Read (CQ 19532) - Previously, JAWS 
 did not read the asterisks on the Infusion Order dialog that marked the 
 required fields.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS and the asterisks will now be read.
  
         508: IV Order Form-Unable to access label click functions (CQ 
 19533) - Previously, users could not reach the links next to the labels 
 for Route, Type, and Schedule that bring up the full list of routes, the 
 definitions for continuous and intermittent, and the Day of Week schedule 
 builder.
 Resolution: Developers changed CPRS and the user should now receive 
 instructions when the screen reader first tabs to those fields to reach 
 the links by using the keyboard combination ctrl + alt+ L.
  
         508:  Patient Selection Form- Elements of form are not in tab 
 order (CQ 19686) - Previously, the labels of some controls were not read, 
 especially when the items were unavailable.
 Resolution: Developers labeled the Process, Remove, Forward, and Show 
 Comments buttons and the labels are in the tab order (as it is not 
 possible to focus a disabled control). The labels for each button state 
 that the buttons are disabled. The labels only display when the screen 
 reader is running and the buttons are disabled.
  
 Test Sites: 
 ===========
  Charleston, SC
  Cleveland, OH
  Heartland East
  Loma Linda, CA
  Northern California Health Care System, CA
  Palo Alto, CA
  Philadelphia, PA
  San Diego, CA
  Tampa, FL
  
  CPRS v28/PRE(MOCHA 1.0) test sites
  Boise, ID
  Tuscaloosa, AL
  Heartland West
  
 Documentation:
 ==============
 Updated documentation describing the new functionality 
 introduced by this patch will be downloaded to sites from the
 FTP address as directed by the CPRS Implementation team.
  
 This documentation will be in the form of Adobe Acrobat 
 files.
 The updated documentation associated with this patch is:
  
 File Name            Contents               Retrieval Format
 ---------            --------               ----------------
 OR_30_280.ZIP        File(s) indented below      Binary     
     - CPRSCHART.EXE    CPRS Executable
     - CPRS.CNT         CPRS Help CNT File
     - CPRS.HLP         CPRS Help File
     - CPRSGUITM.DOC    CPRS GUI Technical Manual (Word version) 
     - CPRSGUITM.PDF    CPRS GUI Technical Manual 
     - CPRSGUIUM.DOC    CPRS GUI User Manual      (Word version)
     - CPRSGUIUM.PDF    CPRS GUI User Manual   
     - CPRSLMTM.DOC     CPRS LM Technical Manual  (Word version)
     - CPRSLMTM.PDF     CPRS LM Technical Manual
     - OR_30_280IG.DOC  CPRS GUI v.28 and Associated Patches
                        Installation Guide        (Word Version)       
     - OR_30_280IG.PDF  CPRS GUI v.28 and Associated Patches
                        Installation Guide
     - OR_30_280RN.DOC  CPRS GUI V28 Release Notes (Word Version) 
     - OR_30_280RN.PDF         CPRS GUI V28 Release Notes
   
  
 OR_30_280_SRC.ZIP      CPRSChart Source            Binary 
  
 CPRS documentation can also be found in the VA Software 
 Document Library:
 http://www.va.gov/vdl.
  
 Host File
 ==========
 CPRS GUI version 28 consists of five host files: 
 PSS_1_151.KID, PSS_1_142.KID, CPRS28_REQUIRED.KID, 
 OR_PSJ_PXRM_28.KID and CPRS28_RELATED.KID. These five host 
 files contain software that support CPRS GUI v28 
 functionality.  The host files were created to simplify 
 installation at Veterans Health Administration (VHA) 
 facilities and to assist in the phased implementation release 
 method for CPRS v28.  CPRS v28 will follow a phased 
 implementation.  To see current status and target dates for 
 Sites/VISN/Region please refer to the following site:
  
 http://vaww.itfo.portal.va.gov/svcs/itfopmo/pre05/default.aspx
  
 Sites will retrieve VistA software from an FTP address as 
 directed by the CPRS Implementation team.  
  
 Installation:
 =============
 This patch is exported as part of OR_PSJ_PXRM_28.KID.  Please refer to 
 the "CPRS GUI v.28 and Associated Patches Installation Guide" 
 OR_30_280IG.DOC for installation sequence information and installation 
 capture of the complete CPRS GUI v28 installation.  The OR_30_280IG.DOC
 is available on the VDL. It will also be distributed when your site is
 targeted for installation.
  
 Please note ORCDPS1 2nd line includes 337.  This is due to OR*3*280 and 
 OR*3*337 developed out of the same account.  This will not be an issue 
 because OR*3*337 is intended to be installed immediately after OR*3*280.

Routine Information:
====================
The checksums below are new checksums, and
 can be checked with CHECK1^XTSUMBLD.

Routine Name: ORB3SPEC
    Before: B80611268   After: B89326077  **139,220,215,280**
Routine Name: ORCDPS1
    Before: B74826833   After: B78578103  **94,117,141,149,195,215,243,
                                           280,337**
Routine Name: ORCDPSIV
    Before: B96653807   After:B121037905  **4,38,48,158,195,243,296,280**
Routine Name: ORCHECK
    Before: B56557816   After:B109684735  **7,56,70,94,141,215,243,293,280**
Routine Name: ORCMEDT8
    Before: B77783054   After: B78288682  **245,243,280**
Routine Name: ORCNOTE
    Before: B56454982   After: B59596403  **22,48,65,104,280**
Routine Name: ORCSAVE
    Before: B74510622   After: B92624396  **7,56,70,73,92,94,116,141,163,
                                           187,190,195,243,303,293,280**
Routine Name: ORCSAVE1
    Before: B30031657   After: B34248374  **92,132,141,163,187,223,243,280**
Routine Name: ORCSAVE2
    Before: B68162412   After: B84878914  **4,27,56,70,94,116,190,157,
                                           215,265,243,293,280**
Routine Name: ORCSEND3
    Before: B25867937   After: B25737895  **243,282,280**
Routine Name: ORCXPND1
    Before: B72217223   After: B72214647  **26,67,75,89,92,94,148,159,
                                           188,172,215,243,280**
Routine Name: ORCXPND3
    Before: B44348323   After: B43846714  **25,30,43,85,172,243,280**
Routine Name: ORDSGCHK
    Before:       n/a   After: B89700507  **280**
Routine Name: OREVNTX
    Before: B73719059   After: B77019944  **141,243,280**
Routine Name: OREVNTX1
    Before: B72373665   After: B75868849  **141,165,149,243,280**
Routine Name: ORKCHK
    Before: B41864853   After: B42414888  **6,32,94,105,123,232,267,243,280**
Routine Name: ORKCHK5
    Before: B21617903   After: B45867526  **6,32,74,94,123,190,280**
Routine Name: ORKCHK6
    Before: B27434561   After: B31072886  **6,32,74,87,94,123,162,190,249,280**
Routine Name: ORMBLDGM
    Before:  B4563455   After:  B5247581  **26,68,97,190,195,280**
Routine Name: ORMBLDP1
    Before:  B3663295   After:  B5382020  **243,280**
Routine Name: ORMBLDPS
    Before: B77690426   After: B86048776  **7,38,54,86,97,94,116,129,141,
                                           190,195,237,254,243,293,280**
Routine Name: ORMFN
    Before: B33381686   After: B37182976  **26,97,94,176,215,243,280**
Routine Name: ORMGMRC
    Before: B44058430   After: B44816636  **3,26,68,92,153,174,195,255,
                                           243,280**
Routine Name: ORMPS1
    Before: B68866316   After: B70284401  **86,92,94,116,134,152,158,149,
                                           190,195,215,265,275,243,280**
Routine Name: ORMPS2
    Before: B46355925   After: B47758235  **94,116,129,134,186,190,195,
                                           215,265,243,280**
Routine Name: ORORDDSC
    Before: B12999110   After: B13143468  **301,295,280**
Routine Name: ORQ2
    Before: B46973301   After: B52016905  **12,56,75,94,141,213,195,243,
                                           282,293,280**
Routine Name: ORQQCN2
    Before: B32612077   After: B33486661  **10,85,125,131,149,215,242,280**
Routine Name: ORQQPL1
    Before: B62886431   After: B62165510  **10,85,148,173,203,206,249,243,280**
Routine Name: ORQQPL3
    Before: B55317795   After: B54712722  **10,148,173,243,280**
Routine Name: ORTSKLPS
    Before:  B5805034   After:  B6566762  **243,280**
Routine Name: ORUTL
    Before:  B8377571   After:  B8567087  **95,280**Dec 17, 1997
Routine Name: ORWCV
    Before: B79773226   After: B80219268  **10,85,109,132,209,214,195,
                                           215,260,243,282,302,280**
Routine Name: ORWD
    Before: B42948340   After: B39271044  **243,280**
Routine Name: ORWDPS3
    Before: B20620076   After: B20975704  **85,94,116,132,187,195,215,280**
Routine Name: ORWDPS33
    Before: B31468284   After: B40244944  **243,280**
Routine Name: ORWDRA32
    Before: B21866324   After: B21891696  **10,116,141,215,280**
Routine Name: ORWDX
    Before: B67409395   After: B66882759  **10,85,125,131,132,141,164,
                                           178,187,190,195,215,246,243,
                                           283,296,280**
Routine Name: ORWDX2
    Before: B12248764   After: B17614403  **246,243,280**
Routine Name: ORWDXA
    Before: B73502300   After: B82710229  **10,85,116,132,148,141,149,
                                           187,213,195,215,243,280**
Routine Name: ORWDXC
    Before: B22991536   After: B52838872  **10,141,221,243,280**
Routine Name: ORWDXM1
    Before: B76690189   After: B71014486  **10,85,131,132,141,178,185,
                                           187,215,243,280**
Routine Name: ORWDXM2
    Before: B75208802   After: B76107854  **10,85,109,116,132,158,187,
                                           195,215,243,280**
Routine Name: ORWDXM3
    Before: B72094070   After:B104533418  **10,85,131,132,141,185,187,
                                           190,195,215,243,303,296,280**
Routine Name: ORWDXM4
    Before: B32166098   After: B37881489  **10,85,215,296,280**
Routine Name: ORWDXR01
    Before: B14412931   After: B20020938  **187,190,195,215,280**
Routine Name: ORWDXVB3
    Before:       n/a   After:  B1399631  **280**
Routine Name: ORWGAPI3
    Before: B30105389   After: B30897218  **215,243,280**
Routine Name: ORWGAPIR
    Before: B41364234   After: B41610059  **215,260,243,280**
Routine Name: ORWGAPIU
    Before: B23844957   After: B23850893  **215,260,243,280**
Routine Name: ORWIB
    Before:  B5750648   After:  B5804851  **280**
Routine Name: ORWLRR
    Before: B13405957   After: B12620243  **10,280**
Routine Name: ORWLRRG
    Before:       n/a   After: B24435305  **280**
Routine Name: ORWLRRG1
    Before:       n/a   After: B42759995  **280**
Routine Name: ORWOD
    Before: B72302805   After: B75747824  **243,296,280**
Routine Name: ORWOD1
    Before: B38695937   After: B41715088  **243,296,280**
Routine Name: ORWOR
    Before: B39244307   After: B42631980  **10,85,132,141,163,187,190,
                                           215,243,307,330,280**
Routine Name: ORWORR
    Before: B66127235   After: B67327939  **10,92,116,110,132,141,163,
                                           189,195,215,243,280**
Routine Name: ORWPCE
    Before: B58056412   After: B60867098  **10,85,116,173,190,195,215,
                                           243,295,280**
Routine Name: ORWPCE1
    Before: B63376274   After: B63538675  **10,85,116,132,148,187,190,
                                           215,243,280**
Routine Name: ORWPCE3
    Before: B43500279   After: B43187706  **10,85,116,190,280**
Routine Name: ORWPS
    Before: B62358507   After: B65159605  **10,85,116,132,141,173,203,
                                           190,195,265,275,243,280**
Routine Name: ORWPT
    Before: B59655732   After: B60483737  **10,85,132,149,206,187,190,
                                           215,243,280**
Routine Name: ORWPT1
    Before: B15345796   After: B15675921  **10,109,280**
Routine Name: ORWRP
    Before: B77665061   After: B77042419  **1,10,85,109,132,160,194,227,
                                           215,262,243,280**
Routine Name: ORWTPR
    Before: B16242046   After: B16455738  **85,173,215,243,280**
Routine Name: ORY280
    Before:       n/a   After: B95955808  **280**
Routine Name: ORY2800
    Before:       n/a   After: B15643771  **280**
Routine Name: ORY28001
    Before:       n/a   After: B71483826  **280**
Routine Name: ORY28002
    Before:       n/a   After: B78087672  **280**
Routine Name: ORY28003
    Before:       n/a   After: B89106334  **280**
Routine Name: ORY28004
    Before:       n/a   After: B57739965  **280**
Routine Name: ORY28005
    Before:       n/a   After: B65374324  **280**
Routine Name: ORY28006
    Before:       n/a   After: B62557827  **280**
Routine Name: ORY28007
    Before:       n/a   After: B55829468  **280**
Routine Name: ORY2801
    Before:       n/a   After: B40551743  **280**
Routine Name: ORY2802
    Before:       n/a   After: B26766910  **280**
Routine Name: ORY2803
    Before:       n/a   After: B12996879  **280**
Routine Name: ORY2804
    Before:       n/a   After: B13526807  **280**
Routine Name: ORY280ES
    Before:       n/a   After: B12630040  **280**
Routine Name: ORY280P
    Before:       n/a   After:  B3900420  **280**
Routine Name: ORYDLG
    Before: B14515305   After: B14515305  **141,165,216,243,280**
 
Routine list of preceding patches: 95, 104, 242, 293, 295, 296, 302, 330
                           337

=============================================================================
User Information:
Entered By  : MASSEY,RONNY                  Date Entered  : NOV 06, 2007
Completed By: SERVICE,JOHN                  Date Completed: MAR 07, 2011
Released By : MONTGOMERY,ALAN               Date Released : MAR 07, 2011
=============================================================================


Packman Mail Message:
=====================

No routines included
